<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>CXXVI: The Losing of the Sense of a Dignified Reserve</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-3-2" id="chapter-126" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXXVI</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">The Losing of the Sense of a Dignified Reserve</p>
			</hgroup>
			<div>
				<header>
					<p>She</p>
				</header>
				<ol start="1251">
					<li>
						<p>The door that is bolted with the bolt of modesty will yet yield to the axe of an overpowering love.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>Heartless is this thing called Love: for it oppresseth my heart even in the dead of night.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>I try indeed to shut my love up within my heart: but like a sneeze it breaketh out of itself without a warning.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>I was proud that I was correct and decorous in my behaviour: but alas! love rendeth every veil and showeth itself in public.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>The stern self-respect that refuseth to seek the beloved though he hath cruelly deserted, is a thing unknown to the lovesick fair.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>How thou lovest me, O Grief! Thou wantest me to follow after him who hath deserted me cruelly!</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>If the beloved but favour us with his love, we at once forget all our reserve.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>It is the subdued speech of that false one skilled in many a wily art, that breaketh through all the defences of our womanly decorum.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>I wanted to go away in a huff: but I went and embraced him, for I saw that my heart had already joined him.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>Can they ever think of refusing to be reconciled, whose heart melteth even as fat in the fire?</p>
					</li>
				</ol>
			</div>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
