<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>LXVIII: The Conduct of Affairs</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-2-2" id="chapter-68" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXVIII</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">The Conduct of Affairs</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="671">
				<li>
					<p>The end of all deliberation is to arrive at a decision: and when a decision is come to, it is wrong to delay the execution thereof.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Do with deliberation those things that ought to be done in a leisurely way: but put not off even for a moment those things that require prompt action.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Go straight for the goal whenever circumstances permit: but when circumstances are against, follow along the path that offereth the least resistance.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Uncompleted work and enemies that are left unsubdued are like unextinguished sparks of fire: they will grow betimes and overwhelm the perfunctory man.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Five things should be carefully considered in the doing of all action, namely, the resources in band, the instrument, the nature of the action itself, the proper time and the proper place for its execution.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Determine first the exertion necessary, the obstacles in the way, and the expected profit, and then undertake thy enterprise.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The way to succeed in any undertaking is to learn the secret thereof from the man who is an expert in it.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Men decoy one elephant by means of another: even so make one enterprise the means of achieving a second.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Placate enemies even more swiftly than thou rewardest friends.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The weak should not care to live in the midst of constant alarms: when an opportunity offereth itself they should submit to an alliance with the strong.</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
