<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title/>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-1-1" id="chapter-6" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VI</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">The Blessings of a Good Helpmate</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="51">
				<li>
					<p>She is the good helpmate who possesseth every wifely virtue and spendeth not above her husband’s means.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>All other blessings turn to nought if the wife faileth in wifely virtues.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Where is indigence if the wife is worthy? and where is riches is worth is not in her?</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>What is there that is grander than woman, when she is strong in the strength of her chastity?</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the woman who worshippeth not other Gods but worshippeth her husband even as she riseth from bed: the rain-cloud obeyeth her commands.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>She is the good housewife who guardeth her virtue and her reputation, and tendeth her husband with loving care.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Of what avail is close confinement? It is her own continence that is the best guardian of a woman’s virtue.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the woman who hath begotten a worthy son: her place is high in the world of the Gods</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the man whose home beareth not an honourable reputation: the proud lion-like walk in the sight of detractors is denied him</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The chiefest blessing is an honourable home: and its crowning glory is worthy offspring.</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
