<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title/>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-2-3" id="chapter-96" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XCVI</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">Respectability of Birth</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="951">
				<li>
					<p>Rectitude and a sense of shame come by nature only to men who are born of a good family.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Men of family fall not from three things, namely, correct conduct, truth, and a sense of shame.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Four are the attributes of the true gentleman: a smiling face, a liberal hand, sweetness of speech, and condescension.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Men of family would not tarnish their name even for the sake of tens of millions.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the men of ancient family: they give not up their liberality even when their means of munificence are diminished.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the men who are anxious to keep pure the honourable traditions of their family: they will never take to deceit nor descend to ignoble deeds.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The fault of a man of noble family will show conspicuously even as the spot in the body of the moon.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>If rudeness of speech showeth itself in a man coming of a good family, people would even suspect the legitimacy of his descent.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The nature of a soil is known by the seedling that groweth therein: even so is the family of a man known by the words that come out of his mouth.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>If thou desire virtue, thou must cultivate the sense of shame: and if thou want to honour thy family, thou must be respectful unto all.</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
