<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title/>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-2-3" id="chapter-105" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CV</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">Indigence</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="1041">
				<li>
					<p>Wantest thou to know what is more galling than indigence? then know that indigence alone is more galling than indigence.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Caitiff Indigence is an enemy to the joys of this life as well as of the next.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The itching that goeth by the name of Indigence killeth dignity of demeanour and refinement of speech, even though they run in the very blood.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Want will drive even men of high family to forget their dignity and to speak the language of abject servility.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>There are a thousand mortifications concealed underneath this one curse called poverty.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The words of the indigent will carry no weight even when they expound grand truths with masterly skill and knowledge.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The poverty that is divorced from virtue will estrange even the mother that bore him from the side of the miserable wretch.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Is Indigence to bear me company even to-day? It tormented me but only yesterday even unto death.<sup class="reference" id="cite_ref-1"><a href="#cite_note-1">[1]</a></sup></p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>It is possible to go to sleep even in the midst of fames: but it is impossible to get even a wink of sleep in the midst of poverty.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The one way open to the indigent is to renounce utterly, their lives: their not doing so is but death to salt and rice-water.<sup class="reference" id="cite_ref-2"><a href="#cite_note-2">[2]</a></sup></p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
