<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XV: Non-Desiring of Another Man’s Wife</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-1-1" id="chapter-15" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XV</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">Non-Desiring of Another Man’s Wife</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="141">
				<li>
					<p>Behold the men whose eyes are turned towards righteousness and towards wealth: they commit not the folly of desiring another man’s wife.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Among those that have fallen from virtue there is no greater fool than he that standeth at his neighbour’s threshold.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Verily they are in the jaws of death who invade the home of an unsuspecting friend.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Let a man be ever so great: what availeth it all if he committeth adultery without thinking ever so little of the shame that floweth there from?</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the man who hangeth on to his neighbour’s wife because she is accessible: his name is sullied forever.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The adulterer knoweth no respite from four things, hatred, sin, fear, and shame.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>He is the righteous householder who careth not for the charms of his neighbour’s wife.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the high-souled man that looketh not on another’s wife: he is more than righteous: he is saintly.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Who on earth deserve all the good things of the world? It is they who clasp not the arms of her who belongeth to another.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Though thou shouldst transgress and yield to every other sin, it were well for thee if thou desire not thy neighbour’s wife.</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
