<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>CXXVIII: Reading the Secret Thought</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-3-2" id="chapter-128" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXXVIII</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">Reading the Secret Thought</p>
			</hgroup>
			<div>
				<header>
					<p>He</p>
				</header>
				<ol start="1271">
					<li>
						<p>Thou mayest try to conceal, my love, but thy eye refuseth to be restrained, and telleth me that there is some strange thought in thy breast.<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-68" id="noteref-68" epub:type="noteref">68</a></p>
					</li>
				</ol>
			</div>
			<div>
				<header>
					<p>She Is Silent and He Addresses the Maid</p>
				</header>
				<ol start="1272">
					<li>
						<p>Ah! More than a woman’s reserve hath my artless one, whose beauty filleth my eyes and whose arms are even as bamboo stems.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>Even as the thread that is seen through the crystal bead, there is a thought that is now passing in her bosom, but which is yet plainly visible.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>Even as the fragrance in the bud that is not yet blown, there is a secret meaning in the half-smile of this artless one.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>The cunning with which she concealed her rising thought and left hath a charm to cure the anguish of my heart.</p>
					</li>
				</ol>
			</div>
			<div>
				<header>
					<p>She Addresses the Maid When Alone</p>
				</header>
				<ol start="1276">
					<li>
						<p>He is overkind and sweet to me: I fear there is something in his heart which he is hardly able to conceal: and it forebodeth to me a second departure.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>My bracelet hath read the coolness in the heart of my gracious lord even sooner than my own self.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>My beloved parted only yesterday: but it is seven days since my form hath lost its freshness!<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-69" id="noteref-69" epub:type="noteref">69</a></p>
					</li>
				</ol>
			</div>
			<div>
				<header>
					<p>The Maid Addresses Him Alone</p>
				</header>
				<ol start="1279">
					<li>
						<p>She looked at her bracelet and her tender arm and then she looked at her feet: these are the signs that she made to me.<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-70" id="noteref-70" epub:type="noteref">70</a></p>
					</li>
				</ol>
			</div>
			<div>
				<header>
					<p>He Speaks to the Maid</p>
				</header>
				<ol start="1280">
					<li>
						<p>She telleth me of the pangs of separation and prayeth for permission to accompany me if I go: how she surpasseth womanhood’s self in delicacy to tell this only with her eyes!</p>
					</li>
				</ol>
			</div>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
