<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title/>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="part-1" id="chapter-38" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXXVIII</h3>
				<p epub:type="title">Destiny</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="371">
				<li>
					<p>Resolution cometh to a man when Fortune is about to smile on him; but Indolence appeareth when Fortune is about to leave.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Evil fate dulleth the faculties: but when Fortune is about to smile she first expandeth the intelligence.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>What doth learning avail and all subtleties? It is the Spirit that is inside that prevaileth over all.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>There are two things in the world which have nothing in common: Riches is one thing and Saintliness is quite another.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>When the tide is against thee even good things turn to evil: and even evil things turn to good when the tide is on.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>What Destiny denieth thou canst not keep even with the utmost care: and even if thou scatter abroad, the things that are thine will not go away from thee.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Even the man who hath amassed ten million cannot enjoy his riches except as the Ordainer hath ordained.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Verily the destitute poor would turn their hearts towards renunciation but that Destiny reserveth them for the miseries that are their portion.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>He that rejoiceth when good cometh, why should he fret when he receiveth evil?</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>What is there that is mightier than Destiny? For even as its victim is meditating a plan to overcome it, it forestalleth him and bringeth him down.</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
