<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title/>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-1-1" id="chapter-7" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VII</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">Offspring</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="61">
				<li>
					<p>We know of no blessing so great as the begetting of children that are endowed with understanding.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the man whose children bear an unstained character: no evil will touch him in any of his seven reincarnations.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Children are the veritable riches of a man: for they pass to him by their own acts all the merits that they acquire.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Sweeter verily than ambrosia is the plain soup bespattered by the tender hands of one’s own children.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The touch of children is the delight of the body: the delight of the ear is the hearing of their speech.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The flute is sweet and the guitar dulcet: so say they who have not heard the babbling speech of their little ones.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>What is the duty of the father to his son? It is to make him worthy to sit in the front rank in the assembly.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>To find oneself eclipsed in intelligence by one’s children is a delight to all the world.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Great is the joy of the mother when a male child is born unto her: but greater far is her delight when she heareth him called worthy.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>What is the duty of the son to his father? It is to make the world ask, For what austerities of his bath he been blessed with such a son?</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
