<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title/>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="subdivision-1-2-b" id="chapter-34" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXXIV</h5>
				<p epub:type="title">The Vanity of All Things</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="331">
				<li>
					<p>There is no greater folly than the infatuation that looketh upon the transient as if it were everlasting.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The crowd that assembleth to witness a village show, that is the symbol of great riches flowing on a man: and the dispersal of that same crowd is the type of its passing away.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Prosperity is transient: if thou have come by it, delay not to do things that are of lasting good.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Tine looketh like an innocent thing: but verily it is a saw that is continually sawing away the life of man.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Make haste to do good works before the tongue is paralysed and hiccough ariseth in the throat.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>But yesterday a man was and to-day he is not: that is the wonder of wonders in this world.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Man knoweth not if he shall last the next minute: but his thoughts are more than ten million.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The fledgeling abandoneth the broken shell of the egg and flieth away: that is the symbol of the love between the soul and the body.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Death is like unto a sleep: and life is like the waking after that sleep.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Hath the soul no home of its own, that it taketh shelter in this worthless body?</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
