<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title/>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="subdivision-1-2-a" id="chapter-28" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXVIII</h5>
				<p epub:type="title">Imposture</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="271">
				<li>
					<p>The five<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-17" id="noteref-17" epub:type="noteref">17</a> principles of his own body smile within themselves when they see the imposture of the hypocrite.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Of what avail is an imposing presence when evil is in the heart and the heart is conscious thereof?</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the ungodly man putting on the puissant look of the austere: he is like a cow that grazeth about wearing a tiger’s skin.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the man who taketh cover under a saintly garb and doth evil: he is like a fowler hiding in the bush and catching birds.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The hypocrite pretendeth unto sanctity and sayeth, I have vanquished my passions: but he will come to grief and cry, What have I done? and what have I done?</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the man that hath not renounced in his heart, but walketh about like one that hath renounced, and cheateth men: there is none more hard of heart than he.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The <i>kunri</i> seed is fair on one side, but the other side of it is black: there are men who are like unto it: they are fair on the outside, but their inside is all black.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Many there be whose heart is impure but who bathe in holy streams and prowl about.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The arrow is straight and the lute hath a bend: judge thou therefore men by their acts and not by their appearance.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Neither matted hair thou wantest nor shaven head, if thou abstain from that which the world contemneth.</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
