<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>CI: The Wealth That Is Not Put to Good Use</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-2-3" id="chapter-101" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CI</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">The Wealth That Is Not Put to Good Use</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="1001">
				<li>
					<p>Behold the man who hath laid by in his home treasures in abundance but enjoyeth them not: he is as good as dead, for he maketh no use of them.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the miser that thinketh that wealth is all in all and hoardeth it without giving to any: he will be a demon in his next birth.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the men that are always after hoarding but care not for fame: their existence is a burden unto the earth.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The man who careth not to earn the attachment of his neighbours, what doth he hope to leave behind him when he is dead?<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-37" id="noteref-37" epub:type="noteref">37</a></p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the men that neither give unto others nor enjoy their wealth themselves: even if they possess tens of millions they really possess nothing.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>There is a man that enjoyeth not his wealth nor giveth freely to men of worth: he is a disease unto a great fortune.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the man that giveth not anything to the needy: the wealth in his hands is like a fair damsel that wasteth away her youth in loneliness.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The fortune of the man that is not loved of men is like the fruiting of the poison tree in the midst of the village.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The wealth that is made without any regard to love or righteousness, and by starving oneself, is hoarded only for the behoof of strangers.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The distress of the man of wealth who hath emptied his resources by benefactions is only like the exhaustion of the rain-cloud: it will not continue for long.</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
