<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XLIII: The Understanding</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-2-1" id="chapter-43" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XLIII</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">The Understanding</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="421">
				<li>
					<p>The understanding is an armour against all surprise: it is a fortress which even enemies cannot storm.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>It is the understanding that curbeth the senses from roving about, keepeth them from evil, and directeth them towards the Good.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>To separate the true from the false in every utterance, whoever it be that speaketh, that is the part of a wise understanding</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>What he speaketh, the wise man speaketh so as to be understood by all: and from the lips of others he gathereth their subtle meanings,</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The wise man is sociable with all the world: and his temper is ever even, expanding not vor contracting to excess.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>It is a part of wisdom to conform to the ways of the world.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The man of understanding knoweth what is coming: but the fool foreseeth not what is before.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>It is folly to rush headlong into danger: it is the part of the wise to fear what ought to be feared.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the man of foresight who is armed for every contingency: he will never know the blow that causeth trembling.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>He that hath understanding hath everything: but the fool though he possess everything hath nothing.</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
