<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title/>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-1-1" id="chapter-11" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XI</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">Gratitude</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="101">
				<li>
					<p>Behold the kindness done without any obligation: even the heavens and the earth are too poor to repay it.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>A kindness done in the hour of need may look small: but it outweigheth the whole world.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the kindness done without thought of recompense: it is mightier than the ocean.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The benefit received may be small even like a millet seed: but in the eyes of the just its measure is that of a palmyra tree.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Gratitude is not limited by the assistance given: it is bounded only by the nobility of him that receiveth it.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Disregard dot the friendship of the holy ones: forsake not those that succoured thee in difficulty.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>He that hath relieved from affliction shall be remembered with gratitude in every birth.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>It is ignoble to forget a kindness: but an ill turn received it is the part of nobility to forget at once,</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The mortallest injury is forgiven the moment the mind recalleth a single kindness received from the injurer.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>There is redemption for men who are guilty of every other crime: but the ingrate wretch shall know of none.</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
