<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>LXXXVIII: The Appraising of Enemies</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-2-2" id="chapter-88" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXXVIII</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">The Appraising of Enemies</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="871">
				<li>
					<p>The accursed thing called enmity should never be courted willingly even though it be only in jest.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Even if thou challenge the men whose weapon is the bow, provoke not the men whose weapon is their tongue.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the prince that hath no allies but challengeth to war a multitude of foes: he is more insane than even a madman,</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the prince that hath the tact to convert enemies into allies: his power will last without end.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>If thou hast to contend alone and without allies against two enemies, try to gain over one of them to thy side.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Whether thou hast decided to make a neighbour thy friend or thine enemy, do not make him either when thou art embarrassed, but leave him alone.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Reveal not thy troubles to men who know it not: neither expose thy weaknesses to thine enemies.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Form a wise plan, consolidate thy resources, and provide for thy defences: if thou do this, it will not be long before the pride of thy enemies is humbled to the dust.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Fell down thorn-trees while yet they are young: for when they are overgrown they will themselves cut the hand that attempteth to fell them.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Verily thy shall not last long, those who humble not the pride of men who defy them.</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
