<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title/>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="introduction" id="chapter-1" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">In Praise of the Lord</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol>
				<li>
					<p><i epub:type="z3998:phoneme">A</i> is the starting-point of the world of sound: even so is the Great Original the starting-point of all that exists.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Of what avail is all thy learning if thou worship not the holy feet of Him of the perfect intelligence?</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Whoso taketh refuge in the sacred feet of Him whose walk is among flowers, his days will be many upon the earth.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the men who cleave unto the feet of Him who is beyond preference and beyond aversion: the ills of life touch them not ever.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the men who sing earnestly the praises of the Lord: they will be freed from the pain-engendering fruits of action both good and evil.<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-3" id="noteref-3" epub:type="noteref">3</a></p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the men who follow the righteous ways of Him who bath burned away the desires of the five senses: their days will be many upon the earth.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>They alone escape from sorrow who take refuge in the feet of Him who hath no equal.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The stormy seas of wealth and sense delights cannot be traversed except by those who cling to the feet of the Sage who is the Ocean of Righteousness.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Worthless indeed like the organs of sense which do not perceive is the head that boweth not at the feet of Him who is endowed with the eight attributes.<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-4" id="noteref-4" epub:type="noteref">4</a></p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>They alone cross the ocean of births and deaths who take refuge in the feet of the Lord: the others traverse it not.</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
