<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>LXIV: The Councillor of State</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-2-2" id="chapter-64" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXIV</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">The Councillor of State</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="631">
				<li>
					<p>Behold the man who judgeth aright the ways and means of achieving great enterprises and the proper season to commence them: he is the proper man for the Council.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Study, resolution, manly exertion, and loving attention to the welfare of the people, these four make along with the last the five qualifications of the Councillor.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>He is the able minister who possesseth the capacity to disunite allies, to cherish and keep up existing friendships, and to reunite those who have become enemies.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Judgment in the choice of projects and the means of their execution, and positiveness in the expression of opinion are necessary qualities in the Councillor.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the man who knoweth the law and aboundeth in instruction, is deliberate in his speech and always understandeth what is fit for each occasion: he is the Councillor for thee.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>What is there that is too subtle for men who add knowledge of books unto natural intelligence?</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Even though thou art wise in thy knowledge of books, gather thou the wisdom of experience and act in accordance therewith.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The prince may be a fool and may thwart him at every step: but the duty of the Councillor is always to point to him what is just and proper.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the minister that sitteth in the Council and plotteth the ruin of his prince: he is more dangerous than seven hundred million enemies.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The irresolute may even plan perfectly: but they will waver in the course of the execution and will never accomplish their designs.</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
