<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title/>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-3-2" id="chapter-123" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXXIII</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">Sighing at the Approach of Evening</p>
			</hgroup>
			<div>
				<header>
					<p>She</p>
				</header>
				<ol start="1221">
					<li>
						<p>Evening! Bless thee, but who calleth thee Evening? Thou art really the hour that devoureth the lives of the wedded ones!</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>Thou lookest melancholy and pale, O Eventide! Pray, tell me, dear, is thy lover also cruel even as mine?</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>The dewy evening hour that once used to come trembling and sighing before me, now advanceth boldly, bringing nought but grief and despair unto my heart.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>When the beloved is away, evening approacheth even as the executioner advancing to the execution-ground.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>What is the kindness that I had done to the morning hour? and how have I injured eventide?<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-64" id="noteref-64" epub:type="noteref">64</a></p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>Alack the day! I never knew the sting of the evening so long as my beloved was by my side.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>This sickness buddeth in the morning, goeth on opening its petals the livelong day, and standeth full-blown at eventide.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>They call it the pipe of the shepherd, but verily it is a murderous weapon to me: for it ushereth, in the evening that burneth me so.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>If evening that hath already driven me mad should advance any further, the whole town will be shrouded in sorrow before long, for I shall simply die.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>The life which is yet clinging on to me will soon depart: for eventide recalleth to me the image of him who is mad after wealth.</p>
					</li>
				</ol>
			</div>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
