<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title/>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-2-1" id="chapter-60" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LX</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">Energy</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="591">
				<li>
					<p>Those that possess energy are alone to be called rich: as to those that possess it not, do they really possess what they own?</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Energy is the veritable possession of a man: for wealth endureth not for ever and will depart from him one day.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the men that hold in their hands the resource called energy: they will never despair, saying, Alas, we are ruined!</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the man who remitteth not ever from his activity: Good Fortune inquireth the way to his home.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The water with which a plant is watered is the measure of the luxuriance of its flower: even so, the spirit of a man is the measure of his fortunes.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Let all thy purposes be grand: for then even if they fail, their glory will tarnish never.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Men of spirit flinch not before a defeat: the elephant planteth his legs only more firmly when he is hit by the deep-piercing arrow.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the men that are wanting in energy: the glory of an exhaustless liberality can never be theirs.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>What availeth his size and his sharp tapering tusks? The heart of the elephant sinketh when he seeth the tiger spring.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Exuberance of spirit, that alone is strength: those that have it not are mere stocks: their human bodies alone make the difference.</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
