<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>CXXI: Sighing for the Absent One</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-3-2" id="chapter-121" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXXI</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">Sighing for the Absent One</p>
			</hgroup>
			<div>
				<header>
					<p>He</p>
				</header>
				<ol start="1201">
					<li>
						<p>Even in the recollection love is sweet with endless delights: love is therefore sweeter than wine.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>The moment I recall the image of my loved one to my mind, that very moment all my sorrow is vanquished: ah, love is dear in all its aspects!</p>
					</li>
				</ol>
			</div>
			<div>
				<header>
					<p>She</p>
				</header>
				<ol start="1203">
					<li>
						<p>I was about to sneeze, but the fit passed away: is it that he was about to think of me but did not?<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-61" id="noteref-61" epub:type="noteref">61</a></p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>Have I at all a place in his heart? As for him, there is never a doubt but he abideth in mine.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>He excludeth me jealously from his heart: is he not ashamed then to show himself ceaselessly in <em>mine</em>?</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>It is but the recollection of our union that keepeth me alive yet: what else of life is there in me?<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-62" id="noteref-62" epub:type="noteref">62</a></p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>Even with my memory full of him, my heart burneth within me: then will be my case if I forget him?</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>How often soever I recall my beloved to my mind he will not be wroth with me: so much is the favour that my beloved bestoweth upon me!</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>When my heart thinketh on his cruelty who once said, We are not two but only one life and soul, verily my life ebbeth away.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>O Moon! set not in the horizon, I pray thee, till my eyes look again upon him who, abiding still within my heart, hath yet parted from me.</p>
					</li>
				</ol>
			</div>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
