<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>CXI: In Praise of the Union</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-3-1" id="chapter-111" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXI</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">In Praise of the Union</p>
			</hgroup>
			<div>
				<header>
					<p>He</p>
				</header>
				<ol start="1101">
					<li>
						<p>All the delights of sight and sound and smell and taste and touch are to be found in their entirety only in this damsel of the shining bangles.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>The cure of all disease lieth in some other thing than that which causeth it: but the pang that this damsel causeth, she alone can heal.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>Is the world of the lotus-eyed God sweeter than the tender arms of her that one loveth?</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>When she is at a distance she burneth, but when she is near she is refreshingly cool: ah! whence did she obtain this strange fire?</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>Behold the witchery of my love whose tresses are adorned with flowers! whatever thing my heart desireth, that very thing her form seemeth to me to be!</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>Of ambrosia are the arms of my artless damsel formed: for their every touch reviveth my dying limbs.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>The embrace of this lovely fair is supremely joyous, even as the family life of the householder who eateth his portion only after distributing charity.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>Joyous to the loving pair is the embrace that alloweth not even the air to come between.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>The pettish frown, the softening of the heart, and the new embrace, these are the sweets that lovers enjoy.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>Even as a man feeleth his ignorance the more keenly the more wise he groweth, even so do I love her the more ardently, the more I enjoy her company.</p>
					</li>
				</ol>
			</div>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
