<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>CVI: Begging</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-2-3" id="chapter-106" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CVI</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">Begging</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="1051">
				<li>
					<p>Thou mayest beg if thou seest men that can afford to do charity: if they feign inability, it is their fault, not thine.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Even begging will be a pleasure if thou canst obtain what thou beggest without suffering any humiliation</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>There is a charm even in begging, at the hands of those who understand their duty and do not falsely pretend inability to help.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the man who sayeth not nay to a request even in a dream: begging at the hands of such a man is as honourable as bestowing itself.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>If men take freely to begging as a means of livelihood, it is because there are men in the world that refuse not alms.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the men that have not the churlishness to deny charity: the pangs of poverty would cease at the very sight of them.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the men that give without snubbing or huffing the beggar: the heart of the beggar rejoiceth when he meeteth them.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>If there were none to beg for alms, the whole world would have no more interest than a dance of marionettes.<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-41" id="noteref-41" epub:type="noteref">41</a></p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Where would be the glory of men of a liberal hand if there were none in the world to beg of them?</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Let not the beggar scowl when a man pleadeth inability to give: for his own need should be enough to show bim that another may be in like condition.</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
