<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title/>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-3-1" id="chapter-113" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXIII</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">The Glorification of Love</p>
			</hgroup>
			<div>
				<header>
					<p>He</p>
				</header>
				<ol start="1121">
					<li>
						<p>Even as honey and milk mingled together is the dew on the lips of this fair one with the subdued speech.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>How great is the love between the body and the soul? Even so great is my love for this artless one.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>O thou Image in the pupil of mine eye! Leave and give room to the fair one that I love, for there is no other abode that is worthy of her.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>It is as life when she is near: but it is as very death when she leaveth my side.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>The virtues of this maiden of the fair and battling eyes I certainly can remember, provided first I can forget them: but how to forget them I know not!</p>
					</li>
				</ol>
			</div>
			<div>
				<header>
					<p>She</p>
				</header>
				<ol start="1126">
					<li>
						<p>He will not go from my eyes, neither will he be hurt when I wink; so subtle is the form of my beloved.<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-46" id="noteref-46" epub:type="noteref">46</a></p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>My beloved dwelleth ever within my eyes; so I do not paint them even lest I lose sight of him even for an instant.<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-47" id="noteref-47" epub:type="noteref">47</a></p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>My beloved is ever in my heart: so I eat not hot food lest it burn him there.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>I wink not for fear that I should lose sight of him even for that instant: and for <em>this</em> the village folk charge him with cruelty.<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-48" id="noteref-48" epub:type="noteref">48</a></p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>He dwelleth lovingly within my bosom and is never away from thence: and yet the village folk declare that he hath abandoned me, and call him cruel.</p>
					</li>
				</ol>
			</div>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
