<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XCIX: Worth</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-2-3" id="chapter-99" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XCIX</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">Worth</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="981">
				<li>
					<p>Behold the men that know their duties and want to cultivate worth in themselves: everything that is good will be a duty in their eyes.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The comeliness of the worthy is the comeliness of their character: the comeliness of the body addeth nothing to their comeliness.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Love to all, sensibility to shame, complaisance, indulgence to the faults of others, and truthfulness, these five are the pillars that support the edifice of a noble character.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The virtue of the saint is non-killing: and the virtue of the worthy man is the abstaining from scandalous speech.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>It is humility that is the strength of the strong: and that is also the armour of the man of worth against his foes.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>What is the touchstone of worth? It is the acknowledgement of superiority when it is found even in men who are otherwise one’s inferiors.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Where is the superiority of the worthy man if he doth not do good even unto those that work him injury?</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Poverty is no disgrace to a man if he possesseth the wealth that is called character.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the men that would not swerve from the path of rectitude even if all else should change in a general convulsion: they will be called the very palladium of worth.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Verily even the earth itself will not be able to support the burden of human life if the worthy were to fall from their worth.</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
