<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XXXIX: The Qualifications of the Prince</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-2-1" id="chapter-39" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXXIX</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">The Qualifications of the Prince</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="381">
				<li>
					<p>He is a lion among princes who is well endowed in respect of the six things: troops, population, substance, council, alliances, and fortifications.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Four qualities should never be wanting in the prince, namely, courage, liberality, wisdom, and energy.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the men that are destined to rule the earth: the three virtues, alertness, learning, and decision, leave them not.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The prince shall not fail in virtue and shall abolish unrighteousness: he shall guard his honour jealously but shall not sin against the laws of valour.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The prince shall know how to develop the resources of his kingdom and how to enrich his treasury: how to preserve his wealth and how to spend it worthily.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>If the prince is accessible to all his subjects and is never harsh of word, his kingdom will be esteemed above every other.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the prince who can give with grace and rule with love: his name will fill the world.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the prince who administereth impartial justice and protecteth his subjects: he shall be called a God among men.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the prince who hath the virtue to bear with words that are bitter to the ear: the world will rest permanently under his umbrella.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the prince who is liberal and gracious and just, and who tendeth his people with care: he is a light among kings.</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
