<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>CXXIX: The Impatience of the Pair to Fly to Each Other’s Arms</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-3-2" id="chapter-129" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXXIX</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">The Impatience of the Pair to Fly to Each Other’s Arms</p>
			</hgroup>
			<div>
				<header>
					<p>She</p>
				</header>
				<ol start="1281">
					<li>
						<p>Rapture at the very thought and delight at the mere seeing belong not to wine: they belong only unto love.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>When love exceedeth even the measure of a palmyra tree, the desire to sulk can never enter the heart even to the extent of a millet seed.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>Though he careth not for me and doth only as he pleaseth, my eyes will not rest unless they behold him.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>I wanted indeed to go away in a huff, my maid: but my heart forgot it and ran after union with the beloved.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>Even as the eye seeth not the blackness of the pencil when it is being painted, even so I see no blemish in my beloved when he is near.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>When he is before me I can see no faults in him: but when I see him not, I can see nothing in him but faults.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>Who will jump into a stream knowing that it hath a treacherous undercurrent that will carry him away? and how should I take to sulking who know that I cannot hold on to it when he is near?</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>Wine is never unwelcome to the drunkard though it maketh him hang down his head in shame: even so is thy bosom to me, O false one!</p>
					</li>
				</ol>
			</div>
			<div>
				<header>
					<p>He</p>
				</header>
				<ol start="1289">
					<li>
						<p>Even tenderer than a flower is love: and few there be who know its delicacy and deal with it gently.<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-70" id="noteref-70" epub:type="noteref">70</a></p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>There were the sulks in her eye when she saw me: but when I approached, she flew to my arms even quicker than I myself to hers.</p>
					</li>
				</ol>
			</div>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
