<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>II: In Praise of Rain</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="introduction" id="chapter-2" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h3>
				<p epub:type="title">In Praise of Rain</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="11">
				<li>
					<p>It is by the unfailing fall of rain that the earth sustaineth itself: therefore is the rain called the <em>immortal drink</em>.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Every food that is sweet to the taste is given to man by Rain: and itself formeth also part of his food.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>It rain should fail, famine would rage over the wide earth even though it is encircled by the ocean.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Husbandmen would cease to ply the plough if the fountains of the heavens are dried up.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>It is rain that ruineth, and it is rain again that setteth up those that it hath ruined.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Even grass will cease to grow if the showers from above should cease to fall.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Even the mighty ocean would reek with corruption if the heavens should cease to suck its waters and render them back to it.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Sacrifices will not be offered to the Gods nor Feasts be celebrated on earth if the heavens are dried up.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Neither charity nor austerities will abide on the wide earth if the heavens should hold back their showers.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Nothing on earth can go on without water: so even right conduct itself depends ultimately on rain.</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
