<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title/>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-2-2" id="chapter-83" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXXIII</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">False Friendship</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="821">
				<li>
					<p>The friendship that an enemy pretendeth is only an anvil whereon to hammer thee when he seeth his opportunity.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the men who look like friends but are enemies at heart; their friendship will alter even as the heart of a woman.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Even if his studies are great and godly, it is impossible for an enemy to cast off the hate in his heart.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Fear thou the hypocritical ruffians that smile to the face but nurse their spite within their bosom.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the men whose hearts are not with thee: though their words tempt thee, place not the slightest faith in them.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>An enemy will be revealed in a moment though he speak the tender language of friendship.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Trust not an enemy though he bendeth low in his speech: for the bending of the bow forebodeth nothing but harm.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Even in his joined hands thy enemy will have a weapon concealed: nor put thou more faith in his tears.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the men that make much of thee in public but laugh thee to scorn in secret: humour thou them openly but crush them even in the embrace of friendship.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>When thou canst not yet break openly with thy foe, feign friendship to his face but keep him off from thy heart.</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
