<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title/>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-2-1" id="chapter-47" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XLVII</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">Deliberation Before Action</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="461">
				<li>
					<p>Take into thy consideration the output and the wastage and the profit that the undertaking will yield; and then put thy hand to it.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the prince who decideth upon action only after consulting with men chosen for their worth; there is nothing that is impossible for him.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>There are enterprises that tempt with a great profit but which perish even the capital itself: the wise undertake them not.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold; the men who fear to be ridiculed by others: they start not on any enterprise without previous deliberation.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>To make war without planning every detail of it beforehand is only to transplant thy enemy on carefully prepared soil.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>There are things that ought not to be done and if thou do them thou wilt be ruined: and there are things that ought to be done and if thou do them not thou will be ruined also.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Decide not upon any action except after careful deliberation: it is a fool who undertaketh first and sayeth in his heart, I shall think afterwards.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the man that goeth not to his work the right way about: all his labour will be a waste even if numbers come to his aid.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Even in doing good thou mayest err, it thou suit not the benefit to the character of him that receiveth.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Let the thing that thou decidest on be above reproach: for the world despiseth the man who stoopeth to a thing that is beneath himself.</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
