<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title/>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-3-2" id="chapter-125" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXXV</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">Addressing One’s Own Heart</p>
			</hgroup>
			<div>
				<header>
					<p>She</p>
				</header>
				<ol start="1241">
					<p>1241. Wouldst thou not think, O my Heart, and find out and tell me some remedy to cure me of this incurable disease?</p>
					<p>1242. Bless thee, my Heart! Thou art a fool to grieve at bis absence when he hath no love for thee.</p>
					<p>1243. What availeth our sitting here and pining away for thinking of him, O my Heart? He that caused us this grief remembereth us not.</p>
					<p>1244. If thou go to him, my Heart, take these eyes also along with thee! For they devour me in their longing to look on him.</p>
					<p>1245. Though <i>he</i> spurneth us in spite of our cleaving unto him, can <i>we</i> give him up as an enemy, my Heart?</p>
					<div class="__nop wst-nop"/>
					<p>1246. When thou lookest on the beloved who is clever in the art of conciliating, my Heart, thou wouldst not even take huff but wouldst rush to his embrace, forgetting all: I fear that now too thy anger is only feigned.</p>
					<p>1247. O my Heart! Either give up love or give up bashfulness: for, I am unable to support both of them at the same time.</p>
					<p>1248. Thou sighest that he would not return for pity sake, and wouldst go to seek him though he separated deliberately from thee: verily, thou art a simpleton, my Heart!</p>
					<p>1249. Whom dost thou seek to join, O my Heart, when thou knowest that the beloved is seated within thy own self?</p>
					<p>1250. If we entertain any longer within our hearts the beloved that hath abandoned us, we shall only waste ourselves away yet further.</p>
				</ol>
			</div>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
