<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>CXXVII: The Longing of the Lovers to Meet</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-3-2" id="chapter-127" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXXVII</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">The Longing of the Lovers to Meet</p>
			</hgroup>
			<div>
				<header>
					<p>She</p>
				</header>
				<ol start="1261">
					<li>
						<p>My eyes have lost their lustre and grown dull, and my fingers have worn away for counting of the days that I have noted on the wall.<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-66" id="noteref-66" epub:type="noteref">66</a></p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>What if I forget today, my maid? My beauty hath already left me and my bracelet hath slipped off my arm.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>He parted from me longing for conquests: and if I live yet, it is for the longing of his return.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>He gave my company up and parted without any regard to my feelings but yet for the mere thinking of his speedy return my heart swelleth with joy!</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>Only let my eyes take their fill of the sight of my beloved: pallor will then no more be seen on my wasted arm.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>Let my spouse but return home: and then in one day I shall drink the nectar of his presence and bid farewell to this wasting disease.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>When the beloved who is dear even as my eyes cometh home, shall I sulk for his long absence? or shall I embrace him? or shall I do both?</p>
					</li>
				</ol>
			</div>
			<div>
				<header>
					<p>He</p>
				</header>
				<ol start="1268">
					<li>
						<p>May the prince begin the battle at once and triumph! And may I return in the evening and feast at home with my loved one!</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>To those who count the days and yearn for the return of the beloved who is away, one single day will creep along with the slowness of seven.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>Of what avail will be my getting back or the meeting or even the hearty embrace, if the heart of my loved one be broken before then?</p>
					</li>
				</ol>
			</div>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
