<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title/>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="subdivision-1-2-a" id="chapter-32" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXXII</h5>
				<p epub:type="title">Non-Injuring</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="311">
				<li>
					<p>The pure in heart injure not others even for the sake of the wealth that glorifieth a man: for that is their way.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Even when another hath injured them in his hate, the pure in heart return not the injury: for that is their way.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>If thou injure another, even though it be only a man who hath injured thee without any provocation, thou simply bringest down upon thyself evils that can never be remedied.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>How shall a man punish them that have injured him? Let him do them a good turn and make them ashamed in their hearts.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Of what avail is intelligence to a man if he doth not look on others' pain as his own and abstain from injuring any?</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>When a man hath felt a pain for himself, let him take care that he inflicteth it not on others.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>It is a great thing it thou injure not knowingly any man, at any time, and in any degree.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>He who hath felt what pain meaneth to himself, how doth he bring himself to inflict it on others?</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>If a man injureth his neighbour in the forenoon, evil will come to him in the afternoon of its own accord.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>All evil recoileth on the head of the wrong-doer: they abstain therefore from wrong-doing who desire to be immune from ills.</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
