<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title/>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-2-2" id="chapter-67" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXVII</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">Decision of Character</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="661">
				<li>
					<p>Greatness of achievement is nought else but the greatness of the will that striveth therefor: all other things come not near the mark.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>To avoid all action that is bound to fail and not to turn away from one’s purpose because of obstacles: these two are said to be the guiding principles of the wise.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The man of action letteth his purpose appear only when that purpose is achieved: for an untimely disclosure would create obstacles that cannot be surmounted.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>To say a thing is easy for any man: but to do it in the manner undertaken is a rare thing indeed.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the man who hath acquired a name for the doing of great deeds: his services will be greatly in request with the prince and will be esteemed by all.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>That which they will, men acquire even in the manner that they will, provided they will with all their might.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Despise not a man for his look: for there are men who are even as the axle pin of the mighty rolling car.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>When thou hast resolved upon a thing with all thy wits about thee, waver not but pursue thy purpose with vigour.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Take up the doing of works that increase happiness: and even if thou have to suffer cruel mortification in the doing of them, steel thy heart and persevere to the end.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the men that have not the ambition to do great deeds: the world will not care for them whatever their other virtues may be.</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
