<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title/>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-1-1" id="chapter-16" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XVI</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">Forgiveness</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="151">
				<li>
					<p>The earth supporteth even those that dig into her: even so bear thou with those that traduce thee; for that is greatness.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Forgive thou always the injuries that others may do thee: but if thou forget them, it were even better.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The most shameful poverty is the refusal of hospitality: and the greatest strength is to bear with the dullness of fools.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>If thou want to be grand always, be forgiving unto all.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The wise respect not the men who retaliate an injury: but they are prized as gold who forgive their enemy.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The joy of revenge lasteth but a day: but the glory of him who forgiveth endureth forever.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Be the wrong suffered ever so great: the better part is not to take it to heart and to abstain from revenge.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Conquer by thy nobility those that in their pride have injured thee.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>More saintly than even those that have renounced are they that bear with the bitter tongue of their detractors.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Those that do penance by fasting are great: but they only come after those that forgive their calumniators.</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
