<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>CIII: Advancing the Family</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-2-3" id="chapter-103" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CIII</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">Advancing the Family</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="1021">
				<li>
					<p>Nothing advanceth a man’s family so much as his determination never to weary in labouring with his hands.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Manly exertion and a sound understanding: it is the fullness of these two that exalteth the family.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>When a man setteth out saying, I shall advance my house, the very Gods gird up their loins and march before him.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the men that remit not in their exertions to raise high their family: the work of their hands will prosper of itself even if they make no elaborate plans therefor.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the man that setteth his family on high without doing iniquity: the whole world will be as a kindred unto him.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>That is the supreme manhood which bringeth to a high estate the family wherein one is born,</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Even as the brunt of an action falleth on the courageous on the battlefield, even so the burden of keeping up the family lieth only on the shoulders of those that can bear the burden.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>There is no season for them that desire the advancement of their family: if they take things easy or stand upon their dignity, their house will be brought low.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Verily, is the body of the man that would protect his family against every ill a receptacle for toils and hardships alone?<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-38" id="noteref-38" epub:type="noteref">38</a></p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the family that hath no good man to prop it up: calamities will gnaw into its roots and it will fall to the ground.</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
