<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>CXII: In Praise of Her Beauty</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-3-1" id="chapter-112" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXII</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">In Praise of Her Beauty</p>
			</hgroup>
			<div>
				<header>
					<p>He</p>
				</header>
				<ol start="1111">
					<li>
						<p>Soft art thou, O blest <i xml:lang="oty-Latn">anitcha</i> flower! but tenderer than thyself is she on whom my heart is set.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>Thou becomest distracted whenever thou seest a flower, O my Heart! Thou thinkest that the flowers that look on all men can resemble her eye!</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>Her arm is as the bamboo; her body is as the tender leaf; her smile is a very pearl; the sweetest of odours is in her breath; and her eye is piercing as the lance.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>The sky-blue flower despaireth of ever equalling her eye in beauty, and droopeth down its head whenever it looketh on her.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>She hath adorned herself with <i xml:lang="oty-Latn">anitcha</i> flowers but hath not removed the stems from among them: alack! her waist will be crushed beneath the weight and will presently break!</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>The stars of the heavens wander from their spheres for that they cannot tell which is the moon and which her face.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>But is there a spot in the face of this fair one even as in the moon which hath rounded up only today its deformities of yesterday?</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>Bless thee, O Moon! If thou canst shine like the face of this lovely one, I shall love thee in very truth.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>If thou want, O Moon, to emulate the face of her whose eyes are like flowers, show not thyself unto all but shine alone for me.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>Even the <i xml:lang="oty-Latn">anitcha</i> flower and swan’s down are as nettle to the feet of this fair one.</p>
					</li>
				</ol>
			</div>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
