<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title/>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-3-2" id="chapter-119" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXIX</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">Bewailing the Pallor of Pining Love</p>
			</hgroup>
			<div>
				<header>
					<p>She</p>
				</header>
				<ol start="1181">
					<li>
						<p>It is I myself that consented to the parting of my beloved: to whom shall I complain now of my pallor?</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>Pallor is proud of being his child, and creeping all over my frame rideth on me.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>My comeliness and my modesty he hath taken away, giving in exchange nought but the pangs of the heart and my pallid hue.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>In my heart I think nought but his thoughts, with my tongue I speak nought but his praises: and yet, witchcraft I this pallor bath overspread my frame.<sup style="font-size:66%; vertical-align:0.6em; line-height:0px;"><a href="/wiki/The_Kural_or_the_Maxims_of_Tiruvalluvar/Notes#note9" title="The Kural or the Maxims of Tiruvalluvar/Notes">9</a></sup></p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>That day too he went but there, and paleness sought me out here!<sup class="reference" id="cite_ref-1"><a href="#cite_note-1">[1]</a></sup></p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>Even as darkness lieth in wait for the light to be put out, even so doth Pallor lie in wait for my separation from my lord.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>I lay in his embrace: I then left him for a while, and behold, pallor swallowed me up, as it were!</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>There are people to reproach me saying, Behold she hath become sallow and pale: but there is none to reproach him for abandoning me!</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>Acquit him forsooth, my maid, of all harmful intent: the death-like pallor of my body is nothing to thee.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>It is good for me even to be twitted with the sallowness of my skin, if only they accuse not my beloved of cruelty.<sup class="reference" id="cite_ref-2"><a href="#cite_note-2">[2]</a></sup></p>
					</li>
				</ol>
			</div>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
