<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>LXXII: Judging of the Audience</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-2-2" id="chapter-72" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXII</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">Judging of the Audience</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="711">
				<li>
					<p>O ye that know how to weigh your words! study well your audience and suit your speech to it.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>O ye that have the gift of eloquence! ascertain the mood of your audience first and then speak after careful deliberation.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the men that take upon themselves to address an assembly without studying its nature: they know not the art of speaking nor are they good for anything else.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Discuss wisdom in the congregation of the wise: but answer fools according to the measure of their folly.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the self-control that denieth itself the lead in an assembly of ancients: it is a virtue that outshineth even other virtues.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>A failure before men of understanding is like falling off from the way of righteousness.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The learning of the scholar shineth forth in all its brilliance only in an assembly of accomplished critics.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Delivering an address of good counsel to men of understanding is like watering the roots of living plants.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>O ye that desire to delight the wise by your discourses! beware of addressing even by mistake an audience of fools.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>A discourse spoken before the unworthy is like unto ambrosia spilled on filthy ground.</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
