<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XXXIII: Non-Killing</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="subdivision-1-2-a" id="chapter-33" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXXIII</h5>
				<p epub:type="title">Non-Killing</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="321">
				<li>
					<p>The greatest of virtues is non-killing: killing bringeth in its train every other sin.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>To divide one’s bread with the needy and to abstain from killing: this is the greatest of all the commandments of all the prophets.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The greatest virtue of all is non-killing: truthfulness cometh only next.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>What is the good way? It is the path that taketh thought how it may save even the smallest of creatures from being killed.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Among all that have renounced this life with its fears of ill, the chiefest is be that reverenceth all life for fear of killing any.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the man who hath taken the vow of non-killing: Death that eateth away all life maketh no inroads into his days.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Take not away from any living thing the life that is sweet unto all, even if it be to save thine own.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>They may say, Sacrifices gain for a man many blessings: but to the pure in heart the blessings that are earned by killing are an abomination.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Those who live by slaying are likened by the discriminating to eaters of carrion.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the man whose putrid body is festering with ulcerous sores: he must have been a shedder of blood in the past, say the wise.</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
