<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>LVIII: Considerateness</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-2-1" id="chapter-58" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LVIII</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">Considerateness</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="571">
				<li>
					<p>Behold that ravishing Beauty called Considerateness: the world cannot go on smoothly without her.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>In considerateness have the amenities of life their existence: those who possess it not are a burden unto the earth.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>To what end is the song that cannot be sung? and what is the worth of the eye that showeth not indulgence?</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>What is the use of eyes that merely show in the face, if they show not consideration for others according to their measure?</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Indulgence is the ornament of the eye: the eye that hath it not will be looked upon as a mere sore.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the men whose eyes show not consideration towards others: verily they are no better than the trees of the earth.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Verily they are blind, those who are not considerate towards others: and there are none that truly see but are indulgent to others’ faults.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the man who can be considerate towards others without derogating from any of his duties: he will inherit the earth.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>It is nobility to forbear and show indulgence even unto those that have offended thee.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Those who desire to be styled the very pink of courtesy will drink off even the poison that hath been mixed for them before their very eyes.</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
