<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title/>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-2-2" id="chapter-81" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXXI</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">Intimacy</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="801">
				<li>
					<p>That friendship is called intimacy which submitteth without resenting to all the freedoms taken by the beloved one.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>To be free and easy with each other, that is the heart of true friendship: and it is the part of worthy men never to resent such familiarities.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Of what avail is friendship that is longstanding if it acquiesceth not in the liberties taken in its name?</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>When friends rely on their intimacy and do a thing without leave, the warmhearted will think of their love and will take it in good part.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>When friends do a thing that paineth thee, account thou it as much to their feeling of perfect oneness with thee as to their ignorance.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The perfect friend giveth not up the friend of his heart even though he hath been the cause of his ruin.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the man who hath loved dearly and long: he bateth not in his affection for his friend even though he cause him damage frequently</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the men who refuse to listen to any imputations against the friend of their bosom: the day that he doth them an injury is a feast-day unto them.<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-32" id="noteref-32" epub:type="noteref">32</a></p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the man who loveth another with a deathless affection: the whole world will hold him dear.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the men that alter not in their affection for their old friends: even enemies will look upon them with tenderness.</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
