<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title/>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-2-1" id="chapter-44" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XLIV</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">Eschewing of Faults</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="431">
				<li>
					<p>Behold the man who is free from haughtiness and anger and the vulgar passion:<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-20" id="noteref-20" epub:type="noteref">20</a> there is a dignity about him that adorneth his prosperity.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Parsimony, over-confidence, and excessive amour propre are faults in the prince.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the men who are jealous of their reputation: though their fault be small even like a millet seed, they look upon it as of the measure of a palmyra tree.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Guard thyself jealously against weaknesses: for they are the foes that will lead thee to ruin.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the man who provideth not beforehand against surprise: he will be destroyed even like a stack of straw before a spark of fire.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>If the prince correcteth his own faults and then looketh into those of others, where is the ill that can approach him?</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the miser that spendeth not where he ought to spend: his wealth will come to an inglorious wreck.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Close-fisted parsimony is not a vice to be classed with other vices: it formeth a class apart.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Exult not at anything at any time: embark not on enterprises that would bring thee no good.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>If thou canst keep from the knowledge of others the things in which thy heart taketh delight, the machinations of thy foes will be in vain.</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
