<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title/>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-3-2" id="chapter-130" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXXX</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">Chiding the Heart</p>
			</hgroup>
			<div>
				<header>
					<p>She</p>
				</header>
				<ol start="1291">
					<li>
						<p>Thou seest how <em>his</em> heart serveth his will: then, how is it that <em>thou</em> obeyest not me, O my Heart?</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>Thou seest, my Heart, how he neglecteth me: and yet thou consortest with him as if he were thy friend!</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>Thou followest him at thy own sweet will and pleasure, my Heart: dost <em>thou</em> also teach me that those who are unfortunate have no friends?</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>Thou refusest to indulge in a <i xml:lang="fr">bouderie</i>, my Heart, before showing thy delight in his company: who is going hereafter to take thee as a confidant in such like things?</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>It feareth lest it should not get him, and when it hath got him, it feareth lest it should lose him: thus there is no end to the pangs that my Heart suffereth.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>What is my Heart good for? It is good for nothing else but to devour me when I am musing alone.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>Fallen into the company of this foolish Heart that knoweth not to preserve its self-respect by forgetting him, I have myself forgotten my dignity.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>My life of a Heart thinketh it a disgrace to our own selves if we humiliate the beloved: and so it is always partial to him.</p>
					</li>
				</ol>
			</div>
			<div>
				<header>
					<p>He</p>
				</header>
				<ol start="1299">
					<li>
						<p>Who will support a man in his grief, if the Heart of his beloved itself refuseth him help?</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>When my own heart is not on my side,<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-71" id="noteref-71" epub:type="noteref">71</a> is it a wonder that strangers<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-72" id="noteref-72" epub:type="noteref">72</a> care not at all for me?</p>
					</li>
				</ol>
			</div>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
