<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title/>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-2-2" id="chapter-77" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXVII</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">The Characteristics of the Army</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="761">
				<li>
					<p>A well-organised and puissant army that feareth not danger is the first among the possessions of the prince.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>It is only veterans that can hold out in desperate situations with grim determination, regardless of decimating attacks.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>What though they roar even like the ocean? an army of rats will be annihilated at a single whiff of the cobra's breath.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>That alone deserveth the name of army which knoweth no defeat, which is incapable of being corrupted, and which hath a long tradition of valour behind it.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>That alone deserveth the name of army which can face valiantly even the God of Death if he should advance against it in all his fury.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Valour, honour, a clear head, and a thorough acquaintance with the history of the great wars of the past, these four are the armours of protection for an army.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>That which deserveth the name of army always goeth for the enemy: for it is confident of overcoming him when he offereth battle.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Superiority of armament is a compensation when the army is lacking in dash or steadiness.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The army will always win provided that it is not inferior in numbers, bath no implacable jealousies, and is not left to starve without pay.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Even if there is no lack of troops of the line, there is no army when there are no chiefs to lead.</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
