<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XVIII: Non-Coveting</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-1-1" id="chapter-18" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XVIII</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">Non-Coveting</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="171">
				<li>
					<p>Behold the man who leaveth the right way and coveteth another man’s wealth: his wickednesses will increase and his family will decline.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the men that turn away from evil: they covet not, neither do they yield to ignoble deeds.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the men that care for other joys: they are not greedy after little delights, nor do they yield unto iniquity.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the men that have mastered their senses and enlarged their vision: they covet not saying, Lo, we are in want.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Of what avail is a mind that is subtle and comprehending, if it yieldeth unto greed and consenteth unto insensate deeds?</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Even he who hungereth after grace and walketh in the path shall perish if he hankereth after wealth and plotteth evil.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Covet not the wealth that greed gathereth: for its fruit is bitter in the day of enjoyment.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>If thou desire that thy substance should not grow less, covet not the riches in thy neighbour’s hands.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the wise man that understandeth justice and coveteth not: Lakshmi knoweth his worth and seeketh him in his home.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The greed that looketh not beyond engendereth destruction: but the greatness that sayeth, I desire not, triumpheth over all.</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
