<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title/>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-2-1" id="chapter-41" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XLI</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">The Neglecting of Instruction</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="401">
				<li>
					<p>Ascending the rostrum without abundant knowledge is like the playing of dice without the chequered board.<sup style="font-size:66%; vertical-align:0.6em; line-height:0px;"><a href="/wiki/The_Kural_or_the_Maxims_of_Tiruvalluvar/Notes#note6" title="The Kural or the Maxims of Tiruvalluvar/Notes">6</a></sup></p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the man without learning who desireth to be called eloquent: he is like unto a woman without busts who yearneth to be admired of men.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Even a fool shall be counted wise if he can hold his peace before the learned.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The opinion of an ignorant man will be rejected by the wise even though it may be perfectly sensible.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the ignorant man who is wise in his own eyes: he will be put to shame directly he openeth his lips in an assembly.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Like unto a waste land that yieldeth no harvests is the man that hath neglected instruction: all that men can say about him is that be liveth, and nothing more.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the man whose understanding hath not been penetrated by the Grand and the Subtle: the comeliness of his person is no better than the beauty of an image of clay.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Bitter verily is the poverty of the man of learning: but far worse is riches in the hands of the fool.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The fool though born of a higher family is esteemed much less than a learned man who is of inferior descent.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>How much better are men than beasts? Even so much are the learned better than those that have not cared for instruction.</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
