<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>C: Courteousness</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-2-3" id="chapter-100" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">C</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">Courteousness</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="991">
				<li>
					<p>Courteousness, they say, cometh easily to those who receive all men with open arms.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Courteousness cometh of the combination of the two virtues of kindness and good-breeding.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Men are likened to each other not by the cut of their personal appearance, but by the similarity of their manners.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the men who love justice and righteousness, and who are of a helpful disposition: the world setteth a high value on their manners.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Disparaging words pain a man even when uttered only in jest: the well-bred therefore are never discourteous even to their foes.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The world goeth on smoothly because of the men of good-breeding: verily, but for them all this harmony would be dead and buried in the dust.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Thou Though they are sharp as files, the men that are lacking in good manners are no better than mere wooden stocks.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Discourtesy is unbecoming in a man, even were it only against men who are unfriendly and unjust.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the men who cannot smile: in all the wide, wide world they will see nothing but darkness even during the day.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the wealth in the hands of the churlish man: it is even as the milk that is spoiled for being kept in an unclean vessel.</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
