<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title/>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-2-1" id="chapter-55" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LV</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">Just Government</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="541">
				<li>
					<p>Deliberate well and lean not to either side: be impartial and consult with the men of law: that is the way to administer justice,</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The world looketh up to the rain-cloud for life: even so do men look up to the sceptre of the prince for protection.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The sceptre of the prince is the mainstay of the science of the Brâhmans and of righteousness also.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the noble prince who ruleth the people of his dominions with loving care: sovereignty will never depart from him.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the prince who wieldeth the sceptre in accordance with the law: seasonal rains and rich harvests have their home in his land.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>It is not the lance that bringeth victory unto the prince: it is rather his sceptre, and that provided it is straight and leaneth not to either side.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The prince is the protector of all his people: and him his sceptre shall guard, provided he alloweth it not ever to lean to either side.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the prince who is not easy of access and who judgeth not causes with care: he will fall iron his place and perish, even when lie hath no enemy.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the prince that guardeth his subjects from enemies both within and without: if he punish them when they go wrong it is not a blemish: it is his duty</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Punishing the wicked with death is like the removing of weeds from the cornfield.</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
