<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title/>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-2-3" id="chapter-97" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XCVII</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">Honour</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="961">
				<li>
					<p>Forbear from those things that would lower thee, even though they should be indispensable for the very preservation of thy life.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the men that desire to leave an honoured name behind them: they will not do that which is not right even for the sake of glory.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Cultivate modesty in the day of prosperity: but in the day of thy decline hold fast to thy dignity.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the men that have soiled a name that was honourable: they are even as the locks of hair that have been shaven off the head and thrown away.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Even men who are grand as a mountain will look small if they do an ignoble thing, though it should be only of the measure of a <i>kunri</i> seed.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>It bringeth pot glory, neither doth it. open the way unto heaven: why then doth a man try to live by fawning on men that despise him?</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>It is better for a man to meet his doom at once without any ado than to maintain himself by hanging on to those that scorn him.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Is the skin immortal, that men desire to save it even at the cost of honour?</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The <i>kavarima</i> giveth up its life when it loseth its wool: there are men who are as sensitive and they put an end to their lives when they cannot save their honour.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the men of honour who refuse to outlive their good name: the world will join its hands and worship at the altar of their glory.</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
