<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>LVII: Abstaining from Deeds That Cause Trepidation</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-2-1" id="chapter-57" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LVII</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">Abstaining from Deeds That Cause Trepidation</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="561">
				<li>
					<p>The prince shall measure the guilt of the offender and punish him so that he offend not again: but the punishment shall not be excessive.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Those that desire that their power shall last, let them brandish the rod smartly but lay it on soft.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the prince who ruleth with a rod of iron and causeth anguish unto his people: he shall stand without a friend and perish forth with,</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the prince whose cruelty is a byword among his people: his days will be shortened and he will perish forth with,</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the dour-faced prince who is inaccessible to his people: the wealth in his hands is like treasure guarded by a demon.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>If the prince is harsh of word and unforgiving, his prosperity, be it ever so great, will come to an end quickly.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Words that are harsh and punishments that are excessive are the files that file away the iron of power.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the prince who will not take counsel with his councillors but who falleth into a passion when his projects fail: his prosperity will wane away.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the prince who looketh not to his defences while yet there is time: when he is surprised by a war be will be seized with trembling and perish quickly.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The tyranny that yoketh to itself charlatans is the only burden under which the earth groaneth: there is none other beside.</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
