<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XXIV: Glory</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-1-1" id="chapter-24" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXIV</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">Glory</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="231">
				<li>
					<p>Give to the poor and add glory unto thy name: there is no greater profit for than than this.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The one theme in the mouth of all that praise is the glory of those that: give unto the poor.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Everything else dieth on earth: but the fame that hath no rival endureth forever.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the man that hath won a lasting, worldwide fame: the Gods on high prefer him even before saints.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The ruin that addeth unto fame and the death that bringeth glory belong only to the great-souled.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>If men must needs be born into the world, let them earn glory: as to those who earn it not, it were better for them not to have been born at all.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Those that are not free from blemish chafe not at themselves: why then are they wroth against their calumniators?</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>It is a disgrace for all men if they earn not the memory called fame.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the land weighed down beneath the tread of an inglorious people: its riches, even though renowned in the past, will wane away.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>They alone live who live without blemish: and they alone die who have lived without glory.</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
