<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title/>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-2-2" id="chapter-76" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXVI</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">The Acquisition of Wealth</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="751">
				<li>
					<p>There is nothing like wealth to lend so much consequence to men of no consequence.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The indigent are decried by all: but everyone exalteth the man of substance.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The unflickering light called wealth lighteth up all dark places unto him that possesseth it.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the substance that is acquired by means that are not evil: righteousness floweth therefrom and happiness also.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Affect not the substance that is divorced from mercy and kindliness, and touch it not with thy hands.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Escheats and derelicts, customs duties, and prize acquired in war, all these contribute to build up the wealth of the prince.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Compassion which is the child of Love requireth for tending it the kindly nurse called Wealth.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the wealthy man who taketh an enterprise on hand: he is like one who watcheth an elephant-fight from the top of a hill.<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-29" id="noteref-29" epub:type="noteref">29</a></p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Amass wealth: for there is no sharper steel to cleave thy foeman’s pride.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the man that hath laid up for himself wealth in great profusion: both the other objects of life<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-30" id="noteref-30" epub:type="noteref">30</a> are within his reach.</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
