<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title/>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-2-2" id="chapter-66" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXVI</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">Purity of Action</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="651">
				<li>
					<p>Alliances bring success unto a man: but purity of action fulfilleth his every desire.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Always turn thy face away from those deeds that bring not glory as well as profit.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Those that desire to rise in the world, let them abjure all action that can tarnish their glory.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the men who see things in their right proportions: even when fallen on evil days they stoop not to action that is dishonourable and mean.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Let not a man do those things which make him cry afterwards, what is it that I have done? and if he hath done any such thing, it is good for him if he doth it not once again.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Let not a man do those things that good men condemn, even to save the mother that bore him from starvation.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The indigence of the worthy is better far than wealth that is amassed by dis honourable means.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the men that shun not those things that are forbidden by good morals: they will come to grief even if they succeed in their designs.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>All that is wrong in the midst of tears will depart also accompanied by weepings: but that which is acquired by righteous ways, even if lost in the middle, increaseth in the latter end.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>To try to lay by wealth by means of guile is like trying to preserve water in a pot of clay that is not baked.</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
