<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>LXXXV: Conceited Folly</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-2-2" id="chapter-85" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXXV</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">Conceited Folly</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="841">
				<li>
					<p>The veritable poverty is the poverty of sense: the world regardeth not other poverty as poverty.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>When a fool bestoweth a gift of his own free will, it is simply the good fortune of the receiver and nothing else.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The troubles that a fool bringeth down on his head, it is hard even for his enemies to cause him.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Dost thou want to know what is shallowness of wit? It is the conceit that sayeth to itself, I am wise.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the fool that pretendeth unto knowledge that be possesseth not: he raiseth doubts even as to those things that he really knoweth.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Where is the good of the fool covering his nakedness, if the deformities of his mind are still left uncovered?</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the shallow man that cannot keep a secret to himself: he will bring down great calamities on his own head.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the man who neither listeneth to advice nor knoweth for himself what is right: all the days of his life he is a plague to his fellows.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>He that trieth to open the eyes of a fool is a fool himself: for the fool seeth but one way and that way is never wrong in his eyes.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the man who denieth what all the world doth assert: he will be looked upon as a devil in human shape.</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
