<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>LI: Testing of Men for Confidence</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-2-1" id="chapter-51" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LI</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">Testing of Men for Confidence</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="501">
				<li>
					<p>Love of the right, gold, pleasure, and fear of life, these four are the tests of a man: give thy confidence therefore to men that satisfy all these tests.<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-26" id="noteref-26" epub:type="noteref">26</a></p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the man who is born of a good family, who is free from faults and who dreadeth disgrace: he is the man for thee.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Even men of rare learning and of pure hearts will not be found, when thou dost test them, to be absolutely exempt from all ignorance.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Weigh a man’s good and weigh his evil: whichever is more, take that to be his nature.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Dost thou want to find out whether a man is noble or little-minded? Know that conduct is the touchstone of character.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Beware of trusting men that have no kindred: for their hearts will be without attachment and they will be callous to shame.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>If thou choose a fool for thy confidential adviser because that thou lovest him, he will lead thee to endless follies.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the man that trusteth another without trying him: he createth endless evils even unto his posterity.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Trust not a man without trying him: and after trying your men, give each of them the work for which he is fit.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>To trust a man whom thou hast not tried and to suspect a man whom thou hast found worthy lead alike to endless ills.</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
