<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title/>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-2-2" id="chapter-86" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXXVI</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">The Defiant Spirit</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="851">
				<li>
					<p>The spirit of defiance is the peccant humour which devejoppeth in all men the distemper called hate.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Even when thy neighbour injureth thee with the deliberate purpose of picking a quarrel, even then it is best not to harbour vengeance or return the injury.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The habit of defying others is verily a grievous malady: if a man freeth himself from it, he will acquire everlasting fame.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The highest joys will be within thy reach is thou reject from thy heart that greatest of evils, the defiant spirit.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Who can desire the overthrow of the man who hath the talent to avoid hostilities?</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the man who taketh delight in breathing defiance against his neighbours: it will not be long before he doth stumble and fall.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the prince of spiteful nature who is ever addicted to strife: he will be blind to the policy that advanceth nations.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The avoiding of strife leadeth unto prosperity: but if thou allow it to grow apace, ruin will not lag far behind.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>When fortune is about to smile on a man he will ignore all provocation: but when Destiny hath decreed him ruin, he will set no bounds to his defiance of his neighbours.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>From defiance springeth all that is bitter: but good will yieldeth the glorious fruit of peace and harmony.</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
