<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>LXXI: Judging by Looks</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-2-2" id="chapter-71" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXI</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">Judging by Looks</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="701">
				<li>
					<p>Behold the man who divineth what is in the mind before the voice uttereth it: he is an ornament unto all the world.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Look upon that man as a God who divineth with certitude that which is in the heart.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the men that can judge a man’s intentions from his looks: take them into thy council at whatever cost.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The men that understand without words may have the same features with the men that do not so understand: but they form a class apart.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>What is the place of the eve among the organs of sense, if it divineth not by a look that which is in the heart?</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Even as the crystal changeth and assumeth the colour of that which is near, even so doth the face alter and show that which overfloweth the heart.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>What is there that is subtler than the face? for whether the heart is angry or glad it is the face that expresseth it first.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>If thou canst find a man that is able to read the inside of thy heart without words, it is enough that thou merely lookest towards him and thy wishes will be fulfilled.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>If there are men who understand its moods and tricks, the eye alone will declare whether there is hatred in the heart or friendship.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The measuring rod of those that call themselves subtle is, when thou search for it, nought else but their eye.</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
