<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XXXV: Renunciation</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="subdivision-1-2-b" id="chapter-35" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXXV</h5>
				<p epub:type="title">Renunciation</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="341">
				<li>
					<p>Whatsoever thing a man hath renounced, from the grief arising from that thing hath he liberated himself.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>If thou want joy, renounce early: for many are the delights that thou shalt enjoy after renouncing,</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Crush thou the five senses: and everything in which thou takest delight, give up utterly.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>To possess nothing, that is the law of the man of vows: the possession of even one thing is a coming back to the snares that he hath left.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>To those that desire to put an end to their reincarnations, even the body is a superfluity: how much more then are other bonds?</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The feelings of <em>I</em> and <em>Mine</em> are nought but vanity and pride: be who crusheth them entereth a higher world than the world of the Gods.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the man who holdeth on to attachments and giveth not them up: Grief shall take hold of him and shall not give him up.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>They that have renounced utterly are on the path to salvation: but the others are caught in a spare.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The moment that attachments are broken, that very moment reincarnations cease: the man who breaketh them not continueth in vanity.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Take thou refuge in Him who hath conquered all attachments: and hold fast to that ark in order that all thy bonds may be broken.</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
