<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XCV: Medicine</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-2-2" id="chapter-95" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XCV</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">Medicine</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="941">
				<li>
					<p>Every one of the three humours described by sages, beginning with the windy one,<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-34" id="noteref-34" epub:type="noteref">34</a> would cause disease whenever they go to either extreme.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The body requireth no medicine if new food is eaten only after the old food is fully digested.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Eat with moderation and after the food that thou hast taken is digested: that is the way to prolong thy days.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Wait till thy food is digested and thy appetite is keen: then eat moderately the food that agreeth with thee.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>If thou eat abstemiously the food that doth not disagree with thee thou wilt have no troubles in the body.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Even as Health seeketh the man who eateth only when his stomach is empty, even so doth Disease seek the man who eateth to excess,</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the man who glutteth himself foolishly beyond the measure of his internal heat: his diseases will exceed all measure.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Consider the disease and its origin and the means of curing it and then set about the cure with every precaution.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Let the physician take the measure of the patient and the disease and the season that is and then let him undertake the cure.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The patient, the physician, the medicine, and the apothecary, on these tour doth all cure depend: and four again are the attributes of each of them.<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-35" id="noteref-35" epub:type="noteref">35</a></p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
