<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XLIX: Judging the Opportune Moment</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-2-1" id="chapter-49" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XLIX</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">Judging the Opportune Moment</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="481">
				<li>
					<p>The crow triumpheth over the owl when it is day: so opportunity is a great thing to the prince who would vanquish his enemy.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>To follow closely on the pace of Time: that is the cord that will bind Fortune to thee firmly.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Where is the thing called impossible if thou start on thy enterprise with a knowledge of the right season and employ the proper means?</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Thou canst conquer even the whole world if thou choose the proper time and the proper objectives.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Those that are intent on conquests will be quietly watching their opportunity: they will know neither confusion nor hurry.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The ram steppeth back before it delivereth the crushing blow: even such is the inaction of the man of energy.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The wise show not their anger on the spot: they will nurse it within their hearts and wait for their opportunity.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Bend down before thy adversaries till the day of their decline: when that day is come thou mayest easily throw them down headlong.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>When thou hast got an unusual chance, hesitate not but straightway attempt even the impossible.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>When the time is against thee feign inaction like the stork: but when the tide is on, strike with the swiftness of its souse.</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
