<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title/>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="subdivision-1-2-a" id="chapter-30" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXX</h5>
				<p epub:type="title">Truthfulness</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="291">
				<li>
					<p>What is truthfulness? It is the speaking of that which is free from even the slightest taint of evil.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Even falsehood is of the nature of truth if it bringeth forth unmixed good.<sup style="font-size:66%; vertical-align:0.6em; line-height:0px;"><a href="#note5">5</a></sup></p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Bear not false witness against thy neighbour: for thy own conscience will burn thee when thou hast lied.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the man whose heart is free from falsehood: he reigneth in the hearts of all.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the man whose heart is fixed in truthfulness: he is greater than tho austere and greater than he that distributeth alms.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>There is no greater renown for a man than the renown that he is a stranger unto falsehood: such a man obtaineth every blessing without mortifying the body.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>If a map can live without ever uttering a falsehood, all other virtue is superfluous unto him.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The cleanliness of the body belongeth unto water: but the purity of the heart is proved by truthfulness.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The worthy regard not all other light as light: it is only the light of truth that they look upon as a veritable illumination.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Many things have I seen in this world: but of all the things that I have seen, there is nothing that is higher than truth.</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
