<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>CXX: Anguish of Heart That the Husband Feeleth Not as Oneself</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-3-2" id="chapter-120" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXX</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">Anguish of Heart That the Husband Feeleth Not as Oneself</p>
			</hgroup>
			<div>
				<header>
					<p>She</p>
				</header>
				<ol start="1191">
					<li>
						<p>They alone eat the stoneless all-sweet fruit of love who are beloved of those whom they hold dear.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>What the rain is to all the world, that is the tenderness of the beloved to her that loveth.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>They alone can pride themselves on their happiness who are loved in return by those whom they love.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>What if they are loved by others? If women receive not the affection of their beloved they know, no happiness on earth.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>How can I hope for any favour from my beloved if he loveth me not even as I love him?</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>Even as the burden on the carrying pole, love is pleasant only when it is on both sides: but it is a galling load when it is only on one side.<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-60" id="noteref-60" epub:type="noteref">60</a></p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>The God of Love assaileth only me: is it because he hath no eyes for my sorrows and sufferings?</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>None in the world are so bard-bearted as women who continue to live on even when they receive no kind messages from their beloved.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>Even if the beloved is unkind to us, any message that cometh from him is sweet to the ear.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>Bless thee, my Heart! Thou wouldst tell thy grief to one who loveth thee not: thou mayest as well try to dry up the sea.</p>
					</li>
				</ol>
			</div>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
