<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title/>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-3-2" id="chapter-116" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXVI</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">The Pangs of Separation</p>
			</hgroup>
			<div>
				<header>
					<p>She</p>
				</header>
				<ol start="1151">
					<li>
						<p>If there is anything about not parting, speak it to me: but if it is only thy quick return, tell it to those who will survive till then.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>His mere look was once a delight unto me: but now even his embrace saddeneth, for that I fear that he is to part.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>It is impossible to put trust in any, seeing that the thought of separation lurketh somewhere even in the heart of him who knoweth my heart.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>If he who bade me be of good cheer consenteth to part from me, can <em>I</em> be blamed for having placed my trust in his solemn promise?</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>If thou wouldst save my life, O my maid, prevent the master of that life, from going: for if he part from me, I despair of our meeting again.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>When he hath the hardness to say to my very face, I shall depart, I give up all hope of his ever coming back to save me.<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-52" id="noteref-52" epub:type="noteref">52</a></p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>Would not my close-fitting bracelets themselves that have slipped from my wrists raise the bruit of the parting of my lord?<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-53" id="noteref-53" epub:type="noteref">53</a></p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>Bitter is life in a place where there are no bosom friends: but bitterer far is separation from the beloved one.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>Hath fire, which burneth only when it is touched the power, like love, to burn when it is far away?</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>Many there are, are there not, who live through the pangs of leave-taking and of separation, and survive till the return of the beloved!</p>
					</li>
				</ol>
			</div>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
