<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title/>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-3-1" id="chapter-110" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CX</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">Reading of the Heart by Signs</p>
			</hgroup>
			<div>
				<header>
					<p>He</p>
				</header>
				<ol start="1091">
					<li>
						<p>Two are the looks of her eye: one of them tortureth the heart, but the other is the balm that healeth it.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>The furtive lightning glance that is turned on the lover the moment that his eyes are turned aside, is not merely the half of love: it is more than a moiety.<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-45" id="noteref-45" epub:type="noteref">45</a></p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>She looked, and then she bowed: that was the watering of the young plant of love that was springing between us.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>When I look at her, she looketh at the ground: but when I look away, she looketh on me and solely smileth.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>She doth not seem to see me, it is true: but she smileth to me the while she affecteth but to wink an eye.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>Though they feign to speak as strangers, the words of the loving will be seen through in an instant.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>The half-hearted reproach and the offended look are the marks of those who pretend to spurn but who really love us in their hearts.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>The slender-shaped maid melteth to see my imploring look and softly smileth: and the gentle smile giveth her an added grace.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>It is only in lovers' eyes that one can see the look of absolute unconcern, as if they were perfect strangers.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>When eyes speak their consent to eyes, the words of the mouth are quite superfluous.</p>
					</li>
				</ol>
			</div>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
