<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title/>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-1-1" id="chapter-22" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXII</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">Complaisance</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="211">
				<li>
					<p>The gracious expect no return when they oblige: how ever can the world repay the rain-cloud?</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The substance gathered in by the worthy by the labour of their hands is all for others’ use.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>A better thing than a gracious complaisance cannot be had either here or in heaven.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>He alone liveth who knoweth what is proper: he who knoweth not what is fitting shall be classed with the dead.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the village tank filled with water to its brim: like unto it is the prosperity of the wise man that loveth the world.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Like unto a fruit-tree in the middle of the village bearing fruit is riches in the hands of the man of heart,</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Like unto a tree that yieldeth medicinal drugs and drieth not is riches in the hands of the generous man.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the men who know what is just and proper: they fail not to oblige others even when fallen on evil days.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The complaisant man thinketh himself poor only when he is impotent to oblige those who solicit his aid.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>If ruin cometh as a result of complaisance, it is worth courting even by selling one’s own self into slavery.</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
