<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title/>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="subdivision-1-2-a" id="chapter-29" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXIX</h5>
				<p epub:type="title">Abstaining from Fraud</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="281">
				<li>
					<p>Whoso wanteth not to be held in contempt, let him guard himself against every thought of fraud.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>It is a sin even to say in one’s heart, I shall cheat my neighbour of his substance.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The fortune that is built up by fraud may appear to thrive; but it is doomed for ever.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The thirst for plunder leadeth in its season to endless grief.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the man that coveteth other men’s substance and lieth in wait to catch them napping: he thinketh not of grace and love is far from his heart.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The man who thirsteth after plunder cannot weigh things aright: nor can he walk in the way of righteousness.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the man that hath weighed the things of this world and made his heart firm: he committeth not the folly of cheating his neighbour.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>As Righteousness resideth in the heart of him who valueth things aright, even so Deceit bath its seat in the heart of the thief.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the man who meditateth on nothing but theft and plunder: he will leave the right path and perish.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>He that deceiveth others is not master even of his own body: but the world of the Gods itself is a never-failing inheritance unto the men that are righteous.</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
