<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title/>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-1-1" id="chapter-10" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">X</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">Kindness of Speech</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="91">
				<li>
					<p>The speech that is truly kind is the speech of the righteous men which is full of tenderness and free from dissimulation.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Better even than a generous gift is sweet speech and a kind and gracious look.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the sweet and gracious look and the kind speech that cometh from the heart: Righteousness hath its dwelling place there.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the man who always speaketh words which gladden all hearts: Poverty, the increaser of sorrow, will never come to him.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Modesty and a loving speech, these alone are the ornaments of man and none other.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Sinfulness will wane away and righteousness will increase if thy thoughts are good and thy speech is kind.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The word that is serviceable and kind createth friends and bringeth forth benefits,</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Words that are kind and are removed from all littleness yield good in this life and in the next also.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Why doth not a man cease from violent words, even after he hath felt the sweetness that kind words give?</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the man who useth hard words when sweet ones serve: he preferreth the unripe fruit to the ripe.</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
