<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title/>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-3-2" id="chapter-131" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXXXI</h4>
				<p epub:type="title" xml:lang="fr">Bouderie<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-73" id="noteref-73" epub:type="noteref">73</a></p>
			</hgroup>
			<div>
				<header>
					<p>The Maid to the Mistress</p>
				</header>
				<ol start="1301">
					<li>
						<p>Embrace him not, my dear, but feign to be angry: let us just see a fun how he is nettled over it.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p><i>Bouderie</i> is the salt of love: to lengthen it unduly, however, is like adding too much of salt to food.</p>
					</li>
				</ol>
			</div>
			<div>
				<header>
					<p>The Wife Is in a Fit of Jealousy and Addresses the Husband</p>
				</header>
				<ol start="1303">
					<li>
						<p>It is like wounding one anew who is already wounded, it thou come away without enmbracing her whom thou hast left in a pet.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>To come away without conciliating her who is frowning in a pet is like cutting off the roots from under the starving plant.</p>
					</li>
				</ol>
			</div>
			<div>
				<header>
					<p>The Husband Within Himself</p>
				</header>
				<ol start="1305">
					<li>
						<p>The <i>bouderie</i> of the beloved hath an attraction even for men who are spotlessly pure.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>If there were no frowns or pets on the part of the beloved, love would miss its fruits and its <i>half-growns</i>.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>There is a pain that belongeth unto <i>bouderie</i>: for one asketh oneself whether reconciliation is near or yet a far way off.</p>
					</li>
				</ol>
			</div>
			<div>
				<header>
					<p>The Husband to Himself but in THB Hearing of the Wife</p>
				</header>
				<ol start="1308">
					<li>
						<p>Of what avail is my grieving when there is no loving one nigh to see how much I suffer?</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>Water is pleasant only in shady groves: and pettishness hath a charm only in one who loveth ardently.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>If my heart still yearneth for her who sootheth me not, it is due to nothing but a foolish longing.</p>
					</li>
				</ol>
			</div>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
