<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title/>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-2-2" id="chapter-93" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XCIII</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">Abstaining from Drink</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="921">
				<li>
					<p>Behold the men who are addicted to drink: they will never be feared by their enemies, and even the glory they have acquired they will lose.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Let none drink: but if they desire, let those men drink who care not for the esteem of worthy men.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The sight of the man who is intoxicated is an abomination even unto his own mother: what must it be then to the worthy?</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the man who is addicted to the low vice of drunkenness: the fair one called Shame turneth her back upon him.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>It is the veriest idiocy to spend one’s substance and obtain in return only insensibility.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the men who drink the poison called toddy day after day: they are as men that are asleep, neither do they differ from dead men.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the men who drink in secret and pass their days in torpid insensibility: their neighbours will soon find them out, and hold them in utter contempt.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Let not the drunkard pretend, saying, I know not even what it is to be drunk: for thereby he would merely add false. hood to his other vice.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the man who reproveth one who is intoxicated: he is like a man who searcheth torch in hand one who is immersed under water.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The man who seeth while he is sober the drunken state of another man, cannot he picture to himself his own state when he is drunk?</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
