<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title/>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-2-2" id="chapter-94" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XCIV</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">Gambling</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="931">
				<li>
					<p>Take not to gambling even if thou win: for thy wins are even as the baited hook that the fish swalloweth.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the gamblers who lose a hundred where they gain but one: is there forsooth a way even for them to thrive in the world?</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>If a man bet constantly over dice, his substance will only go into stranger hands.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Nothing bringeth on wretchedness so surely as gambling: for it killeth a man’s good name and driveth his heart to every ignoble deed.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Many there have been who were proud of their skill in the throwing of dice and were mad after the gambling-house: but there bath not been a single man of them that did not come to grief.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the men that are blinded by the Genius of Wretchedness who cometh in the form of a passion for gambling: they will starve and suffer every misery.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>If thou throw away thy time at the gambling-house, thy inheritance will be consumed and thy fair name will be wiped out.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Gambling will consume thy substance and corrupt thy honesty: it will harden thy heart and bring on thee misery.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Glory, learning, wealth, and even food and clothing will depart from the man who betaketh himself to gambling.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The passion for gambling increaseth with the losses incurred in the bettings: even so doth the craving of the soul for life grow with the griefs that it suffereth therein.</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
