<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title/>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-2-3" id="chapter-108" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CVIII</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">The Degraded Life</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="1071">
				<li>
					<p>How they take after men, these degraded ones! We have never seen likeness so exact!</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Happier than men of conscience are these despicable ones! For they never have any pangs of the mind to feel.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Like unto very Gods are the base ones on earth! For they too are a law unto themselves.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>When the degenerate meeteth a reprobate, he would outbeat him in his vices and pride himself on the achievement.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Fear is the only motive force of degenerates: if there is any other at all, it is appetite, and it availeth just a little.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Like unto a tomtom are the base ones: for they cannot rest without giving out to others the secrets that are entrusted to them.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The degenerate would grudge even to jerk his hands moistened with food, save to those that can break his jaw with clenched fists.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The worthy can be commanded by a simple word: but, like the sugarcane, the low can be made to give only by a sound thrashing.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>It is enough if he seeth a neighbour clothed and fed: the vile man can always discover vices in his character.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>What is the resource of the degenerate when misfortune befalleth him? He hath but one, and that is to sell himself as quickly as possible.</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
