<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title/>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-1-1" id="chapter-13" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XIII</h3>
				<p epub:type="title">Self-Control</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="121">
				<li>
					<p>Self-control leadeth unto heaven, but uncontrolled passion is the royal road to endless darkness.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Guard thy self-control as a very treasure: life hath no richer wealth here below.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the man who controlleth his passions consciously and by the right way: wisdom and every other blessing will come unto him.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the man who hath triumphed over his passions and who swerveth not from duty: his form is more imposing than a mountain.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Humility is beautiful in all man: but alone on the rich doth it shine in all its splendour.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the man who can draw in into himself his five senses even as the tortoise doth its limbs: he hath laid up for himself a treasure for all his future births.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Whatever else thou rein not in, rein in thy tongue: for an unbridled tongue leadeth unto grief.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>If even one word of thine causeth pain to another, all thy virtue is lost.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The burn caused by fire healeth in its time: but the wound burned in by the tongue remaineth greep for ever.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the man who bath learned wisdom and whose mind is tranquil and under perfect control: Righteousness pilgrimageth to his home in order to have a look at him.</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
