<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XCII: Prostitutes</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-2-2" id="chapter-92" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XCII</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">Prostitutes</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="911">
				<li>
					<p>Behold the women that desire a man for the sake of his gold and not for the sake of love: their cajoleries will lead only to misery.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the women who speak honeyed words, but whose thoughts are ever fixed on their own profit: consider their ways and keep them at a distance.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The prostitute pretendeth love when she embraceth her lover: but in her heart she feeleth even as one who hath touched a stranger dead body in a dark room.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the men whose hearts are inclined to deeds of purity: they defile themselves not with the touch of harlots.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the men who add deep study to a clear understanding: they defile themselves not with the touch of women whose charms are free to all.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the men that have a regard for their own good: they touch not the hand of wantons who put up their lewd charms for sale.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the men who are light minded; they will seek the women who embrace with the body while their heart is somewhere else.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the men who have not a discriminating understanding: the embraces of wily women are to then even as the fascination of the siren of the solitudes.<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-34" id="noteref-34" epub:type="noteref">34</a></p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The soft arms of the well-decked harlot are the filthy ditch wherein contemptible fools drown themselves.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Women of two hearts, drink, and the dice-table, these are the delights of men when fortune forsaketh them.</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
