<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>L: Judging of Place</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-2-1" id="chapter-50" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">L</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">Judging of Place</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="491">
				<li>
					<p>Provoke no war and begin no operation except after making a thorough reconnaissance of the theatre of operations.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>It is an immense advantage even to the powerful and the strong to be based on fortified places.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Even the weak can hold their own and triumph over a powerful foe if they choose the proper theatre and operate cautiously.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The plans of thy adversaries will be baffled if thou fall back on strong positions and base thyself on them.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>All-powerful is the crocodile in deep water: but out of it, it is the plaything of its foes.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The strong-wheeled chariot runneth not on the sea: nor saileth the oceangoing ship on dry land.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the prince that hath planned everything beforehand and striketh at the proper objective: he wanteth no other ally than his own valour.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>If the prince whose army is weak only betaketh himself to a proper theatre of war, all the endeavours of his strong foe would be vain against him.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Even if they have no proper defences and other advantages it is hard to beat a people on their own soil.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the high-mettled elephant that hath faced without wincing a whole multitude of lancers: even a jackal will triumph over him when he is entangled in marshy ground.</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
