<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title/>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-2-2" id="chapter-78" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXVIII</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">The Self-Abandon of the Warrior</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="771">
				<li>
					<p>Face not my master in battle, O ye foes! for many are the men that challenged him and are now lying in stone-marked graves.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The javelin that is aimed at a tusker but misseth bringeth more glory than the arrow that is aimed at a hare and even hitteth.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The furious courage that striketh hard, that is what they call valour: but it is chivalrous generosity to the fallen that giveth it its edge.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The warrior hurled his spear at the elephant and was hurrying back to look for another: but he noticed the spear buried in his own body and smiled with joy as he plucked it out.<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-31" id="noteref-31" epub:type="noteref">31</a></p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Is it not a shame to the hero if his eye doth so much as wink when the lance is hurled at him?</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The hero counteth those days as wasted on which he receiveth not deep gashes on his body.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the men that care not for their lives but yearn for the fame that encompasseth the earth about: the anklet that they wear round their foot is a very feast to the eye.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the men of valour that fear not for their lives on the battle-field: they forget not their discipline even when their chief is severe upon them.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Who hath the right to blame the men who lose their lives in the attempt to accomplish that which they have undertaken?</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>If one can die so as to draw tears from the eyes of one's chief, one may even go a-begging in order to obtain for oneself such a death.</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
