<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title/>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-2-2" id="chapter-73" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXIII</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">Self-Confidence Before an Audience</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="721">
				<li>
					<p>Behold the men that know how to weigh their words; they will also know how to order their discourse and will not fail before a wise audience.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the man who can sustain his conclusions in the congregation of the learned: he will be called a scholar among scholars.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>They are common, those that can brave death on the battlefield: but they are rare who can face an audience without trembling.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Place before the learned that which thou hast mastered: and that which thou knowest not, learn from them that excel therein.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Master thou the science of reasoning that thou mayest speak without fear in any assembly.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>What have they to do with swords, those who have no mettle in them and what have they to do with books, those who are afraid to face the assembly of the wise?</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Even as the sword in the hand of the eunuch on the battlefield is the learning of him who is afraid to face an audience.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the men who cannot drive home their point before a learned assembly: even if they possess varied learning they are good for nothing.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the men that possess learning but fear to face an assembly of learned men: they will be esteemed lower than even the ignorant.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the men that are afraid before an assembly and are unable to expound what they have learned: though they breathe, they are no better than dead men.</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
