<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>CXXIV: The Wasting Away of Her Lovely Form</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-3-2" id="chapter-124" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXXIV</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">The Wasting Away of Her Lovely Form</p>
			</hgroup>
			<div>
				<header>
					<p>She</p>
				</header>
				<ol start="1231">
					<li>
						<p>My eyes think on him who left me saying that it was but to increase my happiness that he went, and are ashamed to show their face before flowers.<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-66" id="noteref-66" epub:type="noteref">66</a></p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>My lacklustre eyes that are raining down tears look as if they would betray to others the unkindness of my beloved.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>The arms that swelled with joy on the nuptial day now look as if they would proclaim his parting to all the world.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>The arms that lost their wonted comeliness at the parting of the beloved, are now grown so thin that their very bracelets slip off from them of themselves.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>The arms which have lost their wonted comeliness together with the bracelets that they were wearing, proclaim loudly to the world the cruelty of that cruel one.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>I chide my arms for growing lean and allowing the bracelets to fall off, as people now reproach him with cruelty.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>Wouldst thou obtain glory, O my Heart? Then run to the cruel one and tell him of the bruit that hath arisen here from the wasting away of my arm.</p>
					</li>
				</ol>
			</div>
			<div>
				<header>
					<p>He</p>
				</header>
				<ol start="1238">
					<li>
						<p>As we were embracing each other one day, I but relaxed my arms a little, and the forehead of that artless one grew pale at once!</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>But a single breath of wind cut its way between us during our embrace, and the blood fled at once from her large eyes that are full even as the rain-cloud.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>Did the eyes grow pale only? They wept also at seeing the pallor of the fair forehead above.</p>
					</li>
				</ol>
			</div>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
