<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XXXVII: The Killing of Desire</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="subdivision-1-2-b" id="chapter-37" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXXVII</h5>
				<p epub:type="title">The Killing of Desire</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="361">
				<li>
					<p>Desire is the seed that yieldeth unto every soul, and always, a never-failing crop of births.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>If thou must needs long for anything, long for freedom from reincarnation: and that freedom shall come to thee if thou long to conquer longing.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>There is no greater wealth here below than desirelessness: and wherever thou goest thou canst find no treasure that equalleth it.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Purity is nought but freedom from desire: and this freedom is achieved by yearning for perfect truthfulness.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>It is those that have conquered their desire that are called the liberated ones: the others appear to be free but they are verily in bondage.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>If thou love righteousness, flee from desire: for desire is a snare and a disappointment.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>If a man cutteth off utterly all his desires, salvation shall come to him by any path that he commandeth to it.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>He that hath no desires hath no grief: but ills on ills descend on the man that hankereth after things.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Even here a man shall have everlasting joy if he killeth that greatest misery of all, desire.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Desire is never filled: but if a man giveth it up he attaineth perfection even at that very moment.</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
