<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>III: The Greatness of Those Who Have Renounced the World</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="introduction" id="chapter-3" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">The Greatness of Those Who Have Renounced the World</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="21">
				<li>
					<p>Behold the men who have renounced sense-enjoyments and live a life of discipline: the scriptures exalt their glory above every other good.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Thou canst not measure the greatness of ascetics: thou canst as well count the number of the dead.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Bebold the men who have weighed this life with the next and have renounced: the earth is made radiant by their greatness.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the man whose firm will controlleth his five senses even as the goading hook controlleth the elephant: he is a seed fit for the fields of heaven.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The King of the Gods himself, Indra, is witness unto the might of him that hath burned away the five desires.<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-5" id="noteref-5" epub:type="noteref">5</a></p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The great ones are they who can achieve the impossible:<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-6" id="noteref-6" epub:type="noteref">6</a> the feeble ones are those who cannot.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the man who appreciateth at their true value the sensations of touch and taste and sight and sound and smell:<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-7" id="noteref-7" epub:type="noteref">7</a> he will command the world.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The scriptures of the world proclaim the greatness of the men of the mighty word.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>It is impossible to support even for a second the wrath of those who stand on the rock of renunciation.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>It is saintly men that are to be called Brâhmans: for it is they that have compassion on all life.<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-8" id="noteref-8" epub:type="noteref">8</a></p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
