<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title/>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-3-1" id="chapter-114" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXIV</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">Overpassing the Bounds of Decorum</p>
			</hgroup>
			<div>
				<header>
					<p>He</p>
				</header>
				<ol start="1131">
					<li>
						<p>To those who are torn from their loved one and suffer the pangs of their passion there is no other resource left but the riding of the palmyra stalk.<sup class="reference" id="cite_ref-1"><a href="#cite_note-1">[1]</a></sup></p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>Body and soul cannot support this anguish and have consented to ride the palm: they have trampled down all shame,</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>Firmness and delicacy I had formerly: but now I possess only the stalk of the palmyra that is ridden by the love-lorn lover.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>I put my trust on the raft that was built of firmness and delicacy: but the rushing stream of passion bath carried it along in its course.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>This fair one who weareth tiny bracelets and who is tender as a flower, it is she that hath given me the palm-stalk and the anguish of eventide.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>My eves cannot sleep for thinking of that artless one: I shall ride the stalk therefore even in this late hour of the night.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>Nothing is grander than the woman who refuseth to ride the palm-stalk even when the passion of her heart is deep as the ocean.</p>
					</li>
				</ol>
			</div>
			<div>
				<header>
					<p>She</p>
				</header>
				<ol start="1138">
					<li>
						<p>My Passion considereth not the strength of my modesty nor my kindness towards itself, and betrayeth my secret by showing itself abroad.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>My passion seeth that pone taketh notice of it: and it wandereth about in the streets in great anguish</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>Fools laugh at me to my very face: for they have not felt all the pangs that I feel.</p>
					</li>
				</ol>
			</div>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
