<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title/>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-1-1" id="chapter-5" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">V</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">Family Life</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="41">
				<li>
					<p>The householder is the mainstay of all who follow the three other paths of life.<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-10" id="noteref-10" epub:type="noteref">10</a></p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The householder is the friend of the orphan and the pauper and the helpless dead.<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-11" id="noteref-11" epub:type="noteref">11</a></p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Five are the duties of the householder, namely, the offering of oblations to the dead, the performance of sacrifices to the Gods, the doing of hospitality, the rendering of help unto relations, and the looking after of one's own self.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the man who feareth to do ill and doth charity before eating his meal: his seed decayeth never.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>If love aboundeth in the home and righteousness doth prevail, the home is perfect and its end is all fulfilled.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>If a man fulfilleth aright the duties of the householder, where is the need for him to take up other duties?</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Among those that seek after salvation the greatest are they who lead a virtuous family life.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the householder who helpeth others in the observance of their vows and who leadeth a virtuous life himself: he is holier than the austere ones themselves.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Righteousness belongeth especially to the married life: and a good name is its ornament.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The householder who liveth as he ought to live will be looked upon as a God among men.</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
