<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XCI: Submission to Wife Government</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-2-2" id="chapter-91" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XCI</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">Submission to Wife Government</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="901">
				<li>
					<p>Those that dote upon their wives will not attain to greatness: those that have the ambition to do great things turn away from such seduction.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the man who hath an abject infatuation for his wife: in the very midst of his prosperity he will be a byword among men, and he will have to hide his face in shame.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The weakling who humbleth himself before his wife will always be ashamed to show his face before the worthy.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the salvation-less wretch that trembleth before his wife: his talents will never be held in any esteem.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The man who feareth his wife will never have the courage to do a service: even to the worthy.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the men who stand in awe of the tender arms of their wives: though they live like Gods no man will respect them.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the man that submitteth to petticoat government: a bashful maid hath more dignity in her than he.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the men that allow themselves to be governed by their wives: they will not satisfy the wants of their friends, neither will they do anything that is good.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the men that submit to petticoat government: neither righteousness nor wealth nor even the joy of love will be found with them.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the men whose thoughts are set on great affairs and who are the favourites of fortune: they yield not to the folly of doting on their wives.</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
