<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title/>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-2-1" id="chapter-56" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LVI</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">Tyranny</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="551">
				<li>
					<p>Behold the prince who oppresseth his subjects and doth iniquity: he is worse than an assassin.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>A request from him who holdeth the sceptre is like the <em>stand and deliver</em> of the highway robber.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the prince who doth not over see his administration every day and remove the irregularities therein: his sovereignty will wear away day by day.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the thoughtless prince whose rule swerveth from the ways of justice: he will lose his kingdom and his substance also.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Verily it is the tears of those groaning under oppression that wear away the prosperity of the prince.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>It is just rule that bringeth renown unto princes: and an unjust government darkeneth their glory,</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>How fareth the earth under a rainless sky? even so fare the people under the rule of a cruel prince.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The condition of the rich man is more galling than that of the poor under the rule of the tyrant prince.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The heavens will not send showers in their season if the prince swerveth from justice and right.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The udders of the cow will be dried up and the Brahman will forget his science if the prince ruleth not with justice.</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
