<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title/>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-2-3" id="chapter-102" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CII</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">Sensitiveness to Shame</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="1011">
				<li>
					<p>The blush of the worthy is for action that become them not: it is therefore quite different to the blush of the fair.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Food, clothing, and progeny are common unto all men: it is in the sensibility to shame that they differ from one another.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The body is the seat of all life: but a virtuous blush is the dwelling place of worth.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Is not the jewel of the worthy their sense of shame? And when a man hath it not, is not his swagger an affliction unto the eye to behold?</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the men that blush as much for others’ disgrace as for their own: they will be called the very dwelling place of delicacy.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The worthy refuse to acquire even kingdoms save by means for which they shall not have to blush.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the men that have a delicate sense of shame: they will renounce their lives to save themselves from a disgrace, but will not swallow their shame even in order to save their lives.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>If a man blush not for those things that call forth a blush in others, Righteousness will have cause to blush for him.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>By neglecting ceremonial observances a man loseth only his family: but every good is lost when he is lost to shame.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The men that are dead to shame live not: they merely feign life even as wooden marionettes that are moved by strings.</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
