<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title/>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-1-1" id="chapter-8" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VIII</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">Love</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="71">
				<li>
					<p>Where is the bar that can close in the gates of love? The gentle teardrops of lovers’ eyes are sure to proclaim its presence.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Those that love not live only for themselves: as to those that love, their very bones are for others’ occasions.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>They say it is to taste again of love that the soul hath consented once more to be encased in bone.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Love maketh the heart tender towards all: and tenderness yieldeth that priceless treasure called friendship.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The blessing of the blessed, they say, is only the reward of a constant love.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>They are fools who say that love is for the righteous alone: for even against the evil-minded love is the only ally for a man.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold how the sun burneth the boneless worm: even so doth Righteousness burn the man that doth not love.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the man that loveth not: he will know prosperity only when the sapless tree of the desert putteth forth leaves.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Of what avail is a lovely outside, if love, the soul’s ornament, hath no place in the heart?</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The seat of life is in Love: who hath it not is only a mass of skin-encased bone.</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
