<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title/>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-1-1" id="chapter-19" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XIX</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">Refraining from Slander</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="181">
				<li>
					<p>Behold the man who doeth iniquity and who speaketh not so much as the name of righteousness: it is sweet even unto him if men say, Lo, here is one who backbiteth not.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>It is wrong to turn away from good and do evil: but it is far worse to smile before and vilify behind.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>It is worthier to die at once than live by lying and slander: for such a death bringeth with it the fruits of righteousness.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Slander not a man behind his back even though he hath insulted thee to thy very face.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The lips may speak righteousness: but a slanderous tongue betrayeth the meanness of the heart.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>If thou slander another, he will look into thy own transgressions and expose the worst of them.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>They that know not to speak sweet and to make friendships create discord and separate men who were friends.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Those that speak abroad the transgressions of their friends, how will they spare the transgressions of their enemies?</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>How doth the Earth suffer patiently the tread of the calumniator on her bosom? Is it that she looketh unto Righteousness to rid her of him?</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>If a man can scan his own faults as he doth those of his enemies, can evil ever come to him?</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
