<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title/>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-2-1" id="chapter-62" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXII</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">Manly Exertion</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="611">
				<li>
					<p>Shrink not from any work saying, It is impossible: for labour will give thee the strength to achieve everything,</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Beware of leaving any work unfinished: for the world careth not for those that do not complete the work that they have once begun.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The proud pleasure of being able to serve all men belongeth only to the greatness that shrinketh not from any exertion.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Like unto a sword in the hands of a eunuch is the liberality of the indolent man: it will not endure.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The man who loveth not pleasure but loveth work is a pillar of strength unto his friends and will wipe away their tears of grief.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Industry is the mother of Prosperity: but Indolence only bringeth forth Misery,</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>In sloth hath the Genius of Wretchedness her home: but the Lotus-born One<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-28" id="noteref-28" epub:type="noteref">28</a> resideth in the labour of him who yieldeth not to sloth.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>It is no shame if fortune faileth a man but it is a disgrace if he abstain deliberately from exertion.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Even though the Gods be against, Industry is bound to pay the wages of labour.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>They will snap their fingers even at Destiny who succumb not to it but labour unremittingly in despite of it.</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
