<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title/>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-1-1" id="chapter-14" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XIV</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">Purity of Conduct</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="131">
				<li>
					<p>The man whose conduct is pure is honoured by all: purity of conduct is therefore to be prized even above lite.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Watch anxiously over thy conduct: for wheresoever thou mayest search thou canst not find a firmer ally than right conduct.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Good conduct bespeaketh an honourable family: but low conduct placeth a man amongst the ignoble.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Even the Vedas if forgotten can be learned again: but once fallen from virtuous conduct the Brahman is fallen from his place for ever.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Prosperity is not for the envious: even so dignity is not for men of ill conduct.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The firm-minded swerve not from virtuous conduct: for they know the evils brought on by such swerving.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The man of right conduct is honoured among men: but ignominy alone is the portion of those who fall therefrom.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Good conduct soweth the seed of prosperity: but an evil course is the mother of endless ills.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Foul words can never fall from the lips of the well-bred even when off their guard.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Fools may be as instructed as thou pleasest: but they never learn to conform to the ways of the Righteous.</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
