<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>LXX: Comporting Oneself Before Princes</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-2-2" id="chapter-70" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXX</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">Comporting Oneself Before Princes</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="691">
				<li>
					<p>Whoever desireth to move with princes, let him be like unto the men that warn then selves at a fire: let him not approach too near nor stand too far away.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Not to itch for those things that the prince desireth: that is the secret of acquiring his lasting favour and thereby growing in affluence.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>If thou desire not to fall into disgrace steer clear of all graver failings: for once suspicion is roused, it is impossible for anyone to remove it.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Speak not in whispers in the presence of the great ones: nor smile to another’s face when they are near.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Do not try to overhear any conversation nor to fish out that which is withheld from thee: and then only receive the secret when it is imparted to thee.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Take into thy consideration the humour of the prince and the season that is, and then speak the words that will please him.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Speak those things before the prince that are pleasant to him; but things that are unprofitable, speak not ever even if he demandeth.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Trifle not with the prince because he is young or because he is thy kinsman or connection: but walk with awe before the light that is within him.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the men whose vision is unconfused and clear: they never do things that displease the prince, saying, we are favoured of him.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The men that rely on their intimacy with the prince and do unworthy deeds will perish.</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
