<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>LXIX: The Ambassador</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-2-2" id="chapter-69" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXIX</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">The Ambassador</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="681">
				<li>
					<p>A kind heart, high birth, and manners that captivate princes, these are the qualifications of the ambassador.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>A loving nature, a wise understanding, and skill in speech, these three are indispensable to the envoy.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the man who undertaketh to speak before princes words that shall profit his master: he shall be a scholar among scholars.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Let that man go on embassies who possesseth intelligence and learning and a commanding presence.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Conciseness of speech, sweetness of tongue and a careful eschewing of all disagreeable language, these are the means by which the ambassador shall work his master’s profit.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Learning, sangfroid, persuasive speech, and a just instinct for what is meet for each occasion, all these are necessary qualifications in the envoy.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>He is the fittest ambassador who hath a just eye for time and place, who knoweth his duty, and who weigheth his words before uttering them.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The man that is sent on embassies shall be firm of mind, pure of heart, and engaging in his ways.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the firm-minded man that will never let tall from his lips words that are weak and unbecoming: he is the fit man to deliver the messages of princes at foreign courts.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Even when threatened with death the perfect ambassador will not fail in his duty but will endeavour to secure his master’s profit.</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
