<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>LXV: Eloquence</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-2-2" id="chapter-65" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXV</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">Eloquence</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="641">
				<li>
					<p>The blessing of the tongue is a blessing indeed: for it is a blessing apart and formeth not part of other blessings.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Death and life are in the power of the tongue: guard thou therefore against imprudence of speech.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the speech that bindeth friends more closely and fascinateth even enemies: that alone is worthy of its name.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Weigh each circumstance aright and then speak the speech that is fit: for the increase of righteousness and profit there is no other thing of more worth to thee than it.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Speak thou the speech that cannot be silenced by any other speech.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>To speak so as to captivate one’s own hearers and to seize the sense in the words of others, that is the part of the consummate statesman.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the man who is eloquent of speech and knoweth neither confusion nor fear: it is impossible for anyone to beat him in debate.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the men whose speech is well ordered and couched in persuasive language: the world will be at their beck and call.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Verily they have a passion for much speaking who know not to say their mind in few and well chosen words.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the men who cannot expound unto others the knowledge that they have acquired: they are like unto the flower that blossometh but giveth forth no fragrance.</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
