<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title/>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-2-2" id="chapter-82" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXXII</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">The Friendship That Injureth</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="811">
				<li>
					<p>Behold the men who look as if they would eat thee up for very love, but who love thee not in their hearts: their friendship is sweeter in the waning than in the waxing.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the unworthy wretches who would fawn on thee when it is to their profit and forsake thee when thou canst serve them no more: what mattereth it whether thou gain their friendship or lose it?</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the men that calculate how much they can gain by a friend: they are of the same class with harlots and thieves.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>There are men who are like the unbroken horse which throweth down its rider on the battle-field and gallopeth away: it is far better to be lonely than to have such men for friends.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the vile men that forsake a trusting friend at the time of his need: it is better not to possess their friendship than to possess it.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The enmity of the wise is ten million times better than the intimacy of fools.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The hate of enemies is a hundred million times more valuable than the friendship of boon companions and flatterers.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the men that will place obstructions on thy path while thou art at thy work: tell them not a word, but drop their friendship little by little.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the men whose acts belie their spoken words: it is bitter to recall their fellowship even in dreams.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the men that speak sweet in the closet but disparage in the assembly: do not approach them in any degree.</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
