<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XLVI: Keeping Aloof from Vulgar Company</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-2-1" id="chapter-46" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XLVI</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">Keeping Aloof from Vulgar Company</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="451">
				<li>
					<p>Men of worth fear vulgar company: but little-minded men mix with it as if they made one family with it.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Water altereth and taketh the character of the soil through which it floweth: even so the mind taketh the colour of the company with which it consorteth.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The understanding of a man belongeth unto his mind: but his reputation dependeth on the company he keepeth.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The disposition of a man seemeth to reside in his mind: but its veritable abode is the company in which he moveth.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Purity of heart and purity of action depend upon the purity of a man’s company.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The pure of heart shall have a righteous progeny: and everything prospereth unto those that consort with good company.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Purity of heart is a treasure unto a man: and virtuous company bringeth him every glory.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Though themselves are endowed with every virtue, the wise looks upon the company of the pure as a tower of strength.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Virtue leadeth unto heaven: and the company of the good steadieth a man in the practice thereof.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>There is no greater ally to a man than good company: and nothing injureth so much as evil company.</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
