<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>LXI: Abstention from Sloth</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-2-1" id="chapter-61" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXI</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">Abstention from Sloth</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="601">
				<li>
					<p>The perennial light called Family will be extinguished if it is invaded by the foul vapour of sloth.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Let them call sloth by its real name and avoid it, those who desire to establish their family on a solid foundation.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the fool who huggeth assassin sloth unto his heart: his family will fall even before his day is ended.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the men who are sunk in sloth and who turn not their hand to any noble undertakings: their family will go to ruin and their vices will grow a pace.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Procrastination, forgetfulness, sloth, and sleep, these four are the cosy pleasure boats of those that are fated to perish.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The slothful can never thrive in the world even though they have the favour of princes.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the men who are slothful and who turn not their hand to any noble undertakings: they will listen to much reproof and contumely.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>If sloth find a home in a family, the family will soon be in bondage to its foes.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The afflictions that may have be fallen a man’s family will cease to exist the moment he giveth up sloth.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the prince that knoweth not sloth: he will bring within his sway all that hath been measured by the steps of Trivikrama.<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-28" id="noteref-28" epub:type="noteref">28</a></p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
