<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>CXVIII: The Wasting of the Eyes Through Wistful Longing</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-3-2" id="chapter-118" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXVIII</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">The Wasting of the Eyes Through Wistful Longing</p>
			</hgroup>
			<div>
				<header>
					<p>She</p>
				</header>
				<ol start="1171">
					<li>
						<p>Why do my Eyes complain to me today? This inconsolable grief hath come even upon me only through <em>their</em> showing to me my beloved.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>How is it that the Eyes that looked rashly on the beloved that day grieve today, instead of bearing patiently the consequences of their own folly?</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>They looked on him straightway of their own free will that day, and today they weep of themselves: how they make themselves ridiculous!</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>After bequeathing to me the incurable grief that consumeth me, my Eyes have now dried up, having exhausted their store of tears.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>My Eyes which have brought on me this anguish vaster than the ocean, now pine away with grief and cannot even lay themselves to sleep.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>Oh, it is a sweet revenge to me that the Eyes that caused me this sorrow are victims themselves to the selfsame anguish!</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>Beshrew the eyes that hung upon his form on that day with a passionate, greedy, all-absorbing love! May they dry up to their very roots with pining and repining!</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>Verily there be those who love without being loved! For here are my eyes which know no repose for not seeing him.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>My Eyes sleep not when he is away, neither sleep they when he is returned: either way it is their lot to suffer unceasing pain.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>When people’s eyes themselves are telltale drums, even as my own, it is not hard for strangers to read the secret they seek to conceal.</p>
					</li>
				</ol>
			</div>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
