<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XXIII: Charity</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-1-1" id="chapter-23" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXIII</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">Charity</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="221">
				<li>
					<p>Giving to the poor is alone charity: all other giving is of the nature of loan.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Though it lead unto heaven, receiving is bad: and though heaven should be denied to the giver, giving alms is a virtue.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>It is only the highborn man that giveth without ever meanly saying, I have not.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The heart of the giver is not glad until he seeth the smile of content on the face of the suppliant.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The conquest of conquests to the conqueror over self is the conquest over hunger: but his conquest cometh only after the conquest of him who appeaseth that hunger.<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-15" id="noteref-15" epub:type="noteref">15</a></p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>To fill the gnawing hunger of the poor: that is the way that the wealthy man should lay up riches for himself.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The evil disease called hunger toucheth not the man that divideth his bread with others.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The hard of heart who perish their wealth by hoarding it, have not they ever tasted the delight of giving unto others?</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Bitterer verily than the beggar’s bread is the hoarded meal of the miser eating alone.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Nothing is bitterer than death: but even death is sweet when one hath not the power to do charity.</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
