<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title/>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-2-3" id="chapter-98" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XCVIII</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">Greatness</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="971">
				<li>
					<p>An aspiration for noble achievement, that is what is called greatness: and littleness is the thought that sayeth, I shall live without it.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The manner of birth is the same for all men: but their reputations vary because they differ in the lives that they lead.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Even if they are noble, those that are not noble are not noble; and even if they are lowborn, those that are not low are not low.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Even as chastity in a woman, greatness can be maintained only by being true to one’s own self.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Those that are great have the puissance to employ adequate means and achieve things that are impossible for others.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>It is not in the grain of small men to revere the great and earn their good will and favour.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>If fortune falleth to the lot of the little-minded their insolence will know no bounds.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Greatness is ever unpretending and modest; but littleness vaunteth its merits before all the world.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Greatness showeth condescension unto all: but littleness is the very acme of insolence.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Greatness is always for screening the infirmities of others: but littleness will talk nothing but scandal.</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
