<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title/>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-3-1" id="chapter-115" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXV</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">The Public Humour</p>
			</hgroup>
			<div>
				<header>
					<p>He</p>
				</header>
				<ol start="1141">
					<li>
						<p>As the outcry riseth in the village my life cometh back to me: it is my good luck that many do not know this secret.<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-50" id="noteref-50" epub:type="noteref">50</a></p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>These village folk know not the rare virtues of my beloved with the flower-like eyes: for they have given her cheaply to me by raising this clamour.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>Is not this gossip of the village a precious thing unto me? for even with- out obtaining her I feel as if I possess her already.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>This clamour hath increased my passion for her: without it it would have been but a stale affair.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>Even as every cup that is drunk but maketh the drunkard thirst for more, even so doth every discovery of his passion by others but increase its sweetness for the lover.</p>
					</li>
				</ol>
			</div>
			<div>
				<header>
					<p>She</p>
				</header>
				<ol start="1146">
					<li>
						<p>Our meeting was but for one day: but the outcry that hath arisen over it is as when the serpent hath swallowed the moon!<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-51" id="noteref-51" epub:type="noteref">51</a></p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>The public talk is the manure, and the reproach of mother is the water, that unite to feed and prolong this anguish.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>To think of extinguishing my passion by raising this clamour is like wanting to put out a fre by pouring ghee over it.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>Is it for me to blush at this outcry now, when he who said, Fear not, hath abandoned me to the scandal of every by-stander?</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>This clamour which I in my heart so much desire, the village rabble hath raised for me: verily my beloved will not refuse it me if I should beg it of him.</p>
					</li>
				</ol>
			</div>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
