<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>CXXII: In Praise of the Dream-State</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-3-2" id="chapter-122" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXXII</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">In Praise of the Dream-State</p>
			</hgroup>
			<div>
				<header>
					<p>She</p>
				</header>
				<ol start="1211">
					<li>
						<p>What honours shall I do to the Dream which hath brought me a message from the beloved?</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>If only I could persuade my eyes to sleep, I would fly to my beloved in my dream, and tell him the story of how I manage yet to hold on to life.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>If I am able to support life yet it is only because I see him in dreams who showeth not his face in waking hours.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>Dream giveth me all the joys of love: for it bringeth back to me my beloved who refuseth to pity me in my waking state.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>The joys of the dream last as long as the beloved appeareth in it: and what more can be said of the waking state?</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>Oh that there were no waking state! For then my dream would never be cut short and my beloved would never depart from me.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>The cruel one who pitieth me not while I am awake, why doth he haunt me in my dreams?<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-63" id="noteref-63" epub:type="noteref">63</a></p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>He embraceth me while I am asleep<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-64" id="noteref-64" epub:type="noteref">64</a> and rusheth into my heart as soon as open my eyes.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>They reproach my beloved for that he doth not meet me to their knowledge: but then they see him not in dreams.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>These village folk say that he hath parted from me: is it that they see him not in dreams?</p>
					</li>
				</ol>
			</div>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
