<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XXXVI: Realisation of the Truth</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="subdivision-1-2-b" id="chapter-" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXXVI</h5>
				<p epub:type="title">Realisation of the Truth</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="351">
				<li>
					<p>From the delusion of taking vanities for the Reality a man cometh by a life of sorrow.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the man who is freed from delusion and who hath an unclouded vision: darkness ceaseth for him and joy cometh unto him.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the man who hath freed himself from uncertainties and who bath realised the Truth: heaven is nearer to him than the earth.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Though risen to human birth, nought ie gained if the soul realiseth not the Truth.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>To separate the true from the false in everything, whatever its nature may be, that is the part of a wise understanding.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the man who hath studied deeply and hath realised the Truth: he shall enter the path that leadeth not again into this world.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Verily those that have meditated upon and attained to the Truth need not think at all of future incarnations.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>It is the part of Wisdom to desire to escape the folly called birth, and to aim at realising the Supreme and the Good.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the man who understandeth the means of his salvation and laboureth to conquer all attachments: the ills that he is yet to suffer depart from him.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>As desire and anger and delusion leave a man, his ills also follow their pace and slowly melt away.</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
