<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>LXXX: Testing of Fitness for Friendship</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-2-2" id="chapter-80" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXX</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">Testing of Fitness for Friendship</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="791">
				<li>
					<p>There is no greater ill than making a friend without first testing him: for, once a friendship is formed, there is no giving it up for the man of heart.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the man that maketh men his friends without previously testing them: be courteth disasters which will only end in his death.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Take into thy consideration the family of the man whom thou desirest to make thy friend, his virtues and his vices, and the whole range of his associates and connections: and then befriend him if he is worthy.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the man who is born of a good family and who dreadeth disgrace: one ought to acquire his friendship even by paying a price for it if necessary.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Look for the men who know the way of the wise and can reprove and chastise thee whenever thou go astray: and make them thy friends.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>There is a virtue even in misfortune: for it is the rod wherewith to measure thy friends.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>To discard the friendship of fools, that is veritable profit for a man.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Think not the thoughts that depress the heart: nor make the friendship of men who will abandon thee the moment thou art down.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The friendship of men that betray in the day of disaster would burn the heart that thinketh on it even at the moment of death.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Cultivate with ardour the friendship of the pure; as to men that are unworthy of thee, discard thou their association even if it be by giving them a present.</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
