<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>LXXXIX: The Traitor in the Camp</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-2-2" id="chapter-89" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXXIX</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">The Traitor in the Camp</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="881">
				<li>
					<p>Even groves and fountains give no joy if they breed disease: even so kinsmen too are an abomination when they seek one’s ruin.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Fear not the foe that is like the naked sword: but beware of the enemy that cometh as a friend.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Guard thyself against the secret enemy: for in the moment of embarrassment he will cut thee clean like the potter’s steel.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>If thou have an enemy that masqueradeth about as thy friend, he will soon corrupt thy kindred and bring down a multitude of evils on thy head.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>When a kinsman turneth traitor against thee, he will bring on thee a multitude of evils and jeopardise thy very life.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>When treachery invadeth the entourage of the prince, it is impossible that he falleth not a prey to it one day or other.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The house that is divided against itself is like a vessel that is fitted with a lid: though it appeareth to be a single unit, it will never make a united whole.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the house that is divided against itself: it will crumble to dust even like a piece of iron that is filed with a file.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Though the split be small even like a slit in a sesamum seed, ruin hangeth over the house that is divided against itself.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the man who mixeth on intimate terms with one who hateth him in his heart: he is like one dwelling in a hut with a cobra for his companion.</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
