<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title/>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-2-1" id="chapter-52" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LII</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">Testing and Employment of Men</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="511">
				<li>
					<p>Behold the man that seeth the good and seeth the evil also and chooseth only that which is good: employ thou him in thy service.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the man that is able to develop the resources of thy kingdom and to cure the ills that may befall it: Set him to manage thy affairs.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Let him alone be selected for service who is endowed with kindness and intelligence and decision, and who is free from greed.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Many are the men that satisfy every test and yet alter in the actual performance of duty.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Work should be entrusted to men in consideration of their expert knowledge and capacity for patient exertion, and not of their love towards thy person.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Choose the expert and give him the work for which he is fit: see that the time is ripe for performance and then get him to begin it.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Determine first the capacity of the servant and the work for which he is fit: and then leave him in responsible charge of the same.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>After thou hast decided that a man is fit for an office, make him worthy to fill it.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the man who resenteth the friendly advances of the servant who is skilful at his work: Fortune will depart from him.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Let the prince oversee everything every day: for there will be nothing wrong with the country so long as there is nothing wrong with the officers of the State.</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
