<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XXVI: Abjuring of Flesh-Meat</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="subdivision-1-2-a" id="chapter-26" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXVI</h5>
				<p epub:type="title">Abjuring of Flesh-Meat</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="251">
				<li>
					<p>How can he feel pity, who eateth other flesh in order to fatten his own?</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Riches are not for the thriftless: even so pity is not for those that eat meat.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The heart of the man that tasteth flesh turneth not towards good, even as the heart of him that is armed with steel.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The killing of animals is veritable hardness of heart: but the eating of their flesh is iniquity indeed.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>In non-eating of flesh is Life: if thou eat, the pit of hell will not open its mouth to let thee out.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>If the world desireth not meat for eating, there will be none to offer it for sale.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>If a man can only realise to himself the agony and pain suffered by other living beings, he would not desire to eat flesh-meat.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the men who have escaped from the bonds of illusion and ignorance: they eat not the flesh from which life hath flown out.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>To abstain from the killing and eating of living things is better than to perform a thousand sacrifices in the sacrificial fire.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the man who killeth not and abstaineth from flesh-meat: all the world joineth hands to do him reverence.</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
