<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title/>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-2-2" id="chapter-90" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XC</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">Refraining from Offending the Great Ones</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="891">
				<li>
					<p>The greatest care of a man that looketh to his safety should be to guard himself carefully from offending the Great Ones.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>If a man slighteth the Great Ones, their power will bring down on him miseries without end.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Dost thou seek thy annihilation? then close thy ears to good counsel and offer provocation to men who have the power to destroy thee when they please.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the weak man slighting men of might and power: it is as if he beckoneth to the God of Death to come to him.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the men who provoke the wrath of princes of the mighty arm: wheresoever they go they will not thrive.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Even men who are caught in a conflagration may escape alive: but there is no safety for men who wrong the mighty ones.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Where will be thy life with its varied glories and thy Wealth with all its splendour, if sages, strong in the strength of the spirit, are incensed against thee?</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the princes who look as if they are established on an everlasting foundation: even they will perish with all their kin if men who are mighty as the mountain but will their doom.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Even the king of the Gods will fail from his place and lose his sovereignty if men of holy vows look on him in anger.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Even men who rest upon the most solid of supports will not be saved if men of great spiritual power frown on them.</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
