<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title/>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-2-1" id="chapter-48" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XLVIII</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">Judging of Strength</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="471">
				<li>
					<p>Weigh justly the difficulty of the enterprise, thy own strength and the strength of thy enemy, and the strength also of your<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-21" id="noteref-21" epub:type="noteref">21</a> allies; and then enter thou upon it.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the prince who knoweth his own force and hath learned what he ought to learn, and who oversteppeth not the limits his force and information: his invasions will never fail.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Many there have been who in the sanguineness of their hearts overestimated their strength and adventured, but were cut off in the middle.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the men who know not to live in peace, who know not their own measure and who are full of self-conceit: they will have a swift end.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Put too many of them and even peacock’s feathers would break the wagon’s axle.<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-22" id="noteref-22" epub:type="noteref">22</a></p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Those that have climbed to the top of the tree will lose their lives if they attempt to climb still higher.<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-23" id="noteref-23" epub:type="noteref">23</a></p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Keep thou in mind the extent of thy wealth and let thy gifts be commensurate therewith: that is the way to conserve and divide thy substance.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>It mattereth not if the feeder channel<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-24" id="noteref-24" epub:type="noteref">24</a> is strait, provided that the draining channel<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-25" id="noteref-25" epub:type="noteref">25</a> is not wider.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the man that taketh not account of his measure nor liveth within the bounds thereof: he may look like prospering, but he will perish leaving no trace behind.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the man that measureth not his wealth and lavisheth it with an unsparing hand: his substance will quickly come to nought.</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
