<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title/>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-2-1" id="chapter-40" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XL</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">Learning</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="391">
				<li>
					<p>Acquire thoroughly the knowledge that is worth acquiring and after acquiring it walk thou in accordance therewith.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Two are the eyes of living kind: the one is called Numbers, and the other, Letters.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The learned alone can be said to possess eyes: the unlettered have but two sores in their head.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The scholar bringeth joy with him wherever he cometh: but when he departeth he leaveth regrets behind.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Though thou hast to humble thyself before the teacher even as a beggar before a man of wealth thou yet acquirest learning: it is those that refuse to learn that are the lowest among men.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Knowledge is like unto a sand-spring: the more thou diggest and drawest thereat, the more excellent is the flow thereof.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Everywhere is his home to the learned man, and everywhere his native land: why then doth a man neglect instruction up to his dying day?</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The learning that a man hath acquired in one birth will exalt him; even in all his succeeding incarnations.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The learned man seeth that the learning that delighteth him delighteth also all that listen to him: and he loveth instruction all the more on that account.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>An imperishable and flawless treasure is learning to a man: other wealth is as nothing before it.</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
