<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title/>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="subdivision-1-2-a" id="chapter-31" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXXI</h5>
				<p epub:type="title">Abstaining from Anger</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="301">
				<li>
					<p>He alone can be said to forbear who hath the power to strike: as to him that hath not the power, what mattereth it whether he forbeareth or forbeareth not?</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>It is wrong to get angry even when thou art helpless to strike: and when thou hast the power, there is nothing that is worse than anger.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Whoever thy offender may be, forget thy anger: for from anger springeth a multitude of ills.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Anger killeth the smile and it destroyeth cheer: hath man a crueller foe than anger?</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>If thou want to look after thyself, keep off from choler: for if thou keep not off, it will come upon thee and destroy thy own self.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Choler destroyeth every man whom it approacheth: and it burneth also the family of him who nurseth it.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>He who nurseth his rage as if it were a precious thing is like unto the man who dasheth his hand against the ground: the hand of this man escapeth not from injury, and the destruction of the first is as certain.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Even when thy wrongs burn as the flaming of many fires, it is good if thou canst abstain from anger.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>All the desires of a man will be fulfilled on the instant if from his heart be banish anger.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Whoso is overwhelmed with anger is like one dead; but whoso hath forsworn wrathfulness is like unto the saints.</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
