<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title/>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-2-1" id="chapter-59" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LIX</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">The Service of Intelligence</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="581">
				<li>
					<p>Let the prince understand that Political Science and his Intelligence Corps are the eyes wherewith he seeth.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>It is the duty of the prince to learn betimes everything that befalleth every man and every day.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the prince that learneth not the happenings about him by means of scouts and spies: conquests are not for him.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The prince shalt set spies to watch closely the officers of the realm, his own kindred, and his enemies.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the man who can wear an unsuspicious appearance, who will not know confusion before any man, and who can guard his secrets from ever leaking out: he is the proper man for the work of Intelligence.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Spies and scouts shall disguise themselves as ascetics and holy men, and their investigation shall be thorough: and whatever is done them, they shall not let out their secrets.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the man who can draw out secrets from others and whose information is ever unconfused and clear: he is the man for the work of intelligence.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Even the information that hath been obtained by a spy shall be tested by that of another.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>See that no spy knoweth the others engaged in the same work: when three reports agree, thou mayest give credence to them.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Reward not openly thy officers of Intelligence: for if thou do, thou merely lettest out thy own secret.</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
