<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>CIV: Husbandry</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-2-3" id="chapter-104" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CIV</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">Husbandry</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="1031">
				<li>
					<p>Roam where they will, men must at last stand behind the plough for their food: in spite of every hardship, therefore, husbandry is the chiefest industry.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Husbandmen are the linchpin of society: for they support all those that take to other work, not having the strength to plough.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>They alone live who live by tilling the ground: all others eat only the bread of dependence.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the men whose fields sleep under the shadow of the rich ears of their harvests: they will see the umbrellas of other princes bow down before the umbrella of their own sovereign.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the men that eat the bread of husbandry: they will not only not beg themselves, but they will also give alms to those that beg, without ever saying nay.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Even they who have renounced all desire will have to suffer if the husbandman sitteth still with folded arms.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>If thou dry the soil of thy field till an ounce of mould is reduced to a quarter-ounce of dust, then not even a handful of manure will be needed, and the yield would be abundant.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Manuring profiteth more than the ploughing: and when the land is weeded, guarding it profiteth more than irrigation.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>If the goodman visiteth not his land but sitteth at home, the land will take huff even as the goodwife.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The fair one called Earth laugheth to herself when she seeth the sluggard cry, saying, Alas, I have nothing to eat.</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
