<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>CIX: The Wound That Beauty Inflicteth</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-3-1" id="chapter-109" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CIX</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">The Wound That Beauty Inflicteth</p>
			</hgroup>
			<div>
				<header>
					<p>He<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-42" id="noteref-42" epub:type="noteref">42</a></p>
				</header>
				<ol start="1081">
					<li>
						<p>The jewelled form that appeareth yonder, is it a Goddess? or a peacock chosen from among its kind? or is it simply a lovely maid? Verily I am too dazed to tell.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>How would it fare with men if the fascinating siren of the solitudes<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-43" id="noteref-43" epub:type="noteref">43</a> assail them with a whole lost behind her? So fareth it with me when the lovely one returneth toy look.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>I never knew Death before: I know it now: it weareth the form of a woman and bath large and battling eyes.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>She is simple and gracious, but yet her eyes are versed in the ways of waging war: for they drink the lives of those that look on her.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>Is it Death that I behold or simply eyes? or is it the look of the gazelle? for all three are to be found in the glance of this artless one.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>It is only when her eyebrows will cease to bend and will veil her looks that her eyes will cease to cause me the pangs that make me tremble.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>The vestment that covereth the beauteous breasts of this fair one are even as the eye-cover on the eyes of the infuriate elephant.<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-44" id="noteref-44" epub:type="noteref">44</a></p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>Is it by her fair forehead that my manhood is overcome, the manhood that causeth to tremble even those that have not faced me on the battlefield?</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>To what end are these trinkets that merely mar her beauty, when she hath the guileless look of the fawn and modesty as her especial ornaments?</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>Wine giveth joy, but only to him that tasteth it: it can never delight at the mere seeing as doth love.</p>
					</li>
				</ol>
			</div>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
