<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>LIV: Guarding Against Insouciance</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-2-1" id="chapter-54" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LIV</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">Guarding Against Insouciance</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="531">
				<li>
					<p>Worse than excessive rage is the unguardedness that cometh of self-complacency.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>A false sense of security killeth glory even as indigence cursheth the understanding.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Glory is not for the unwatchful: that is the conclusion of every school of thinkers in the world.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Of what use are fortresses to the cowardly? or abundance of resources to the incautious?</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>He who faileth to guard against everything beforehand will deplore his negligence when he is surprised by disaster.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>If thou relax not in thy vigilance at all times and against all men, there is nothing like it.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Nothing is impossible to the man who can bring unto his work a mind that is ever wakeful and cautious.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The prince shall devote himself assiduously to works that are commended by the wise: if he neglect them he will suffer in all his future births.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>When thou art tempted to be self-complacent and elated, call to thy kind those that have perished by their supineness.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Verily it is easy for a man to achieve all that he desireth, provided he keepeth his purpose constantly before his mind.</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
