<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title/>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-3-2" id="chapter-133" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXXXIII</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">The Charm of <i xml:lang="fr">Bouderie</i></p>
			</hgroup>
			<div>
				<header>
					<p>She</p>
				</header>
				<ol start="1321">
					<li>
						<p>Even if he is free from faults, it is only <i>bouderie</i> that giveth me a taste of his conciliatory grace.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>Though the tenderness of the beloved hath to wait a little, there is a charm in the pinprick that we feel in being pettish.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>Is there a higher heaven than <i>bouderie</i>, provided that the beloved is one with us, even as the water with the land whereon it floweth?</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>In my very quarrel with my beloved lieth the engine that stormeth the defences of my heart.</p>
					</li>
				</ol>
			</div>
			<div>
				<header>
					<p>He</p>
				</header>
				<ol start="1325">
					<li>
						<p>Even when one is free from faults there is a delight when the arms of the beloved are withdrawn from one's clasp.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>Sweeter is digestion than the meal: even so is the lovers' quarrel sweeter than the embrace.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>It is the one who yieldeth first who is the winner in lovers' quarrels: thou canst see it indeed at the hour of reconciliation.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>Verily, will she give some piquancy to the delights of our embrace by just feigning a quarrel for some time?</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>Oh, let me enjoy her frowning and her pouting a little more! Only let night prolong her reign at my prayer.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p><i>Bouderie</i> is the charm of love: and the charm of that again is the sweet embrace at its close.</p>
					</li>
				</ol>
			</div>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
