<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XII: Uprightness of Heart</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-1-1" id="chapter-12" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XII</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">Uprightness of Heart</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="111">
				<li>
					<p>The just and the fair that giveth each man his due whether he is friend or foe, that is the good: nought else.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The prosperity of the just groweth not less: it endureth even unto their remotest posterity.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Though nought but profit come of it, touch not the wealth that cometh by deviating from the right.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The righteous and the unrighteous are known by their offspring.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Evil and good come unto all: but an upright heart is the glory of the wise.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>When thy heart swerveth from the right and turneth unto evil, know that thy destruction is near at hand.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The world looketh not down on the poverty of the upright and virtuous man.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the weighing beam, for it is straight in itself and weigheth justly: the glory of the wise is to be like unto it and to incline neither to this side nor to that.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the man who swerveth not at all from the right in his own mind: the upright speech of his lips is a judgment.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the businessman that looketh after the interests of others as his own: his business will expand.</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
