<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>LXXXIV: Folly</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-2-2" id="chapter-84" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXXIV</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">Folly</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="831">
				<li>
					<p>Dost thou want to know what folly is? It is the throwing away of that which is profitable and the holding fast to that which is hurtful.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The chiefest among all kinds of folly is the folly of inclining the heart towards conduct that is unbecoming to oneself.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The fool is neglectful of duties and rude of speech, and callous to all sense of shame: and he will cherish nothing that is good.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>There is a man that is learned and subtle and a teacher of others, and yet continueth to be the slave of his passions himself: there is no greater fool than he.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The fool hath the gift of sowing in one birth the seeds of misery for all his future incarnations.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the fool that taketh in his hand an enterprise of moment: he will not merely spoil it, he will qualify also for fetters.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>If the fool should come by a great fortune it is strangers that will feast and his kindred will only starve.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>If the fool obtaineth anything of value he will behave like a madman who is also grown tipsy.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Greatly delectable is the friendship of fools: one feeleth no pangs when one parteth from them.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Even as is the placing of an unwashed foot on the couch, even so is the entrance of the fool in an assembly of men of worth.</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
