<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title/>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="subdivision-1-2-a" id="chapter-" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXV</h5>
				<p epub:type="title">Mercy</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="241">
				<li>
					<p>The chiefest wealth is a heart that is rich in mercy: for material wealth is found even in the hands of vile men.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Reason by the right method and take up Mercy: and if thou inquire of all religions also, thou shalt see that Mercy is the only salvation.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>They enter not into the dark and bitter world whose heart is joined unto mercy.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The results of actions at which the soul trembleth pursue not him who is kind and merciful to all life.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Affliction is not for the merciful: the teeming air-encircled earth is a witness thereto.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the man that hath forsaken mercy and doth iniquity: though he must have suffered cruelly in past births for abandoning virtue, he hath forgotten the lesson, say the wise.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The other world is not for those that have not mercy, even as this world is not for them that are without riches.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The poor in substance may one day thrive and prosper: but they that lack pity are poor indeed and their day cometh never</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>It is as easy for the hard of heart to do deeds of righteousness as for the confused in mind to realise the Truth.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>When thou art tempted to oppress the weak, consider how it would be for thee to tremble before a stronger.</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
