<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>LXXIX: Friendship</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-2-2" id="chapter-79" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXIX</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">Friendship</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="781">
				<li>
					<p>What is there in the world that is 30 difficult to acquire as friendship? and what other armour equalleth it as a defence against the machinations of foes?</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Like unto the waxing of the moon is the friendship of the worthy: but the alliance of fools is like the waning thereof.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The friendship of the worthy is like the studying of great books: the more thou approachest them, the more charms thou wilt discover in them.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The object of friendship is not merry making: but the restraining and reproving of oneself when one goeth astray.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Constant meeting and companionship are superfluous: it is the union of hearts that maketh strong the bond of friendship.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Friendship is not the comradeship that smileth to the face: it is rather the love that delighteth the heart.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>That man alone is thy friend who turneth thee aside from wrong, directeth thee toward the right, and beareth thee company in misfortune.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the hand of the man whose garment hath been blown aside, how it hurrieth to re-cover his limbs: that is the symbol of the true friend that hasteneth to succour a man in his misfortune.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Where doth friendship hold its court? It is where two hearts beat in perfect unison and combine to lift each other up in every possible way.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>There is beggary in the friendship that can be reckoned, though it boasteth saying, Thus much do I love him and thus much he loveth me.</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
