<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title/>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-2-1" id="chapter-53" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LIII</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">Cherishing of Kindred</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="521">
				<li>
					<p>Constancy of attachment even in adversity belongeth only unto kindred.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>If a man is blessed with kindred whose love for him bateth not, his fortunes will never cease to grow.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The man who rejoiceth not in the intimacy of his kindred is like a tank without bunds: the waters of prosperity will flow away from him.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>To gather and attach one’s kindred to oneself: that is the use and purpose of prosperity.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>If a man have a sweet tongue and a liberal hand his kinsmen will gather round him in serried ranks.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the man that giveth freely and entertaineth not anger: the world hath none who hath a more attached kindred than he.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The crow concealeth not its food selfishly from its fellows but shareth it lovingly with them: prosperity will abide only with men of a like nature.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>It is good if the prince treateth not all his kinsmen alike but hath a graduated scale for each: for there are many that have an eye to privilege.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The estrangement of a kinsman is easily remedied: remove the cause of the coolness and he will come back to thee.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>When a kinsman that hath broken with thee cometh back to thee for a reason, accept thou him, but with caution.</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
