<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title/>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-3-2" id="chapter-117" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXVII</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">Bewailing the Pangs of Separation and Pining Away</p>
			</hgroup>
			<div>
				<header>
					<p>She</p>
				</header>
				<ol start="1161">
					<li>
						<p>I smother my grief within me, but behold! it only welleth up more and more even as the water of the spring to those who are draining it.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>To conceal my grief is now beyond me: but as to disclosing it, I should feel it a shame to speak of it even to him that caused it.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>At the two ends of the pole which is my life, my two loads of passion and and delicacy hang heavy; and this suffering body breaketh under their weight.<sup class="reference" id="cite_ref-1"><a href="#cite_note-1">[1]</a></sup></p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>There is a very sea before me in my passion for my beloved: but a trusty bark to cross it there is none for me.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>What will they not do when they are enemies, those who suffer one to pine away when they are friends?</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>Vast as the sea is the joy that love yieldeth: but when it taketh to burning, the pangs it causeth are deeper far.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>I swim in the stormy sea of love, but I spy not any shore thereto: even in the dead of night I am all alone and there is none to console me.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>Night in her mercy rocketh all life to sleep: and yet she hath none to help her through but me.<sup class="reference" id="cite_ref-2"><a href="#cite_note-2">[2]</a></sup></p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>The Night that passeth too slowly for me to-day is crueller in its cruelty than the cruel one himself.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>If my eyes can run, even as my heart runneth, to where he is, they need not now be swimming in a sea of tears.</p>
					</li>
				</ol>
			</div>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
