<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title/>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-3-2" id="chapter-132" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXXXII</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">The Finesses of <i xml:lang="fr">Bouderie</i></p>
			</hgroup>
			<div>
				<header>
					<p>She</p>
				</header>
				<ol start="1311">
					<li>
						<p>All that are women devour thee with their eyes, thou gallant! I shall have none of thy embrace.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>I was in the sulks: he then sneezed, for he thought that I would bless him saying, Long live my beloved!</p>
					</li>
				</ol>
			</div>
			<div>
				<header>
					<p>He</p>
				</header>
				<ol start="1313">
					<li>
						<p>Even if I wear a garland she would go off in a pique saying, Thou wantest to look smart in some damsel’s eyes!</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>I said to her, I love thee above all: and behold, she frowned at once asking, Above whom? and above whom?</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>I told her, We shall never part in this life: alack, her eyes at once filled with tears!<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-74" id="noteref-74" epub:type="noteref">74</a></p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>I said to her, I called thee to mind when away: and she that was about to clasp me to her arms went off in a pet saying, Thou hadst forgotten me then!</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>I sneezed and she blessed: but then she recalled her blessing and asked with tear-filled eyes, Who thought on thee now, that thou sneezedest?<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-75" id="noteref-75" epub:type="noteref">75</a></p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>I repressed my sneeze: and then aiso she wept saying, Thou wantest to conceal from me that some of thy friends are thinking on thee!</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>Even if I exhaust all my arts to soothe her, she will only frown harder saying, Thou hast practised well at others’ <i xml:lang="fr">bouderies</i>!</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>Even if I look in rapture on her own charms, she will chide saying, To whose limbs now art thou comparing mine?</p>
					</li>
				</ol>
			</div>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
