<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XLV: Courting the Friendship of the Worthy</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-2-1" id="chapter-45" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XLV</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">Courting the Friendship of the Worthy</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="441">
				<li>
					<p>Esteem thou the men that have grown old in righteousness, and acquire their friendship.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the men who can cure the evils that have already befallen thee and who can guard thee from future ones: cultivate thou their friendship with ardour.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>It is the rarest of rare good fortunes if a man can secure to himself the devotion of men of worth.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>If those that are worthier than thyself have become thy intimates, thou hast acquired a strength before which all other strength paleth.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>As the eyes of the prince are his own ministers, let him use his discretion and choose them wisely.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the man who can move with the worthy as their intimate: his foes will be powerless against him.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Who can ruin the man that com mandeth the friendship of those that can reprove him?</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the prince who reposeth not on the support of men who can rebuke him: he will perish even when he hath no foes.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Profit is not for those that have no capital: even so stability is not for them that repose not on the firm support of the wise.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>It is foolish to make a multitude of foes: but it is ten times worse to give up the intimacy of the good.</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
