<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title/>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-2-1" id="chapter-63" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXIII</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">Intrepidity in the Face of Misfortune</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="621">
				<li>
					<p>When thou meetest with misfortune face it with thy best smile: for there is nothing like a smile to enable a man to hold his own against it.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>A whole sea of troubles will abase themselves the moment a shifty mind collecteth itself to face them.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Troubles they send away troubled who trouble not themselves at the sight of troubles.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the man who is prepared to strain his every nerve like the bull-buffalo to wade through every difficulty: he may meet with obstacles but he will send them away disappointed.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the man whose heart sinketh not even at a whole host of troubles arrayed against him: the obstacles in his path have themselves met with an obstacle.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The men that exult not at good fortune, can they ever fret themselves saying, Alas! we are ruined?</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The wise know that the body is a target unto misfortune: and so they worry themselves not when they meet with a calamity.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the man who loveth not pleasure and who knoweth that difficulties are a part of the law of things: he smarteth not ever under any check.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The man who runneth not after pleasure in the day of success suffereth not pain in the day of failure.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the man who looketh upon the stress and strain of exertion as a veritable joy: he will be extolled by his very enemies.</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
