<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title/>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-2-2" id="chapter-87" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXXVII</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">The Characteristics of Enemies</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="861">
				<li>
					<p>Strive not with the powerful: but against those that are weaker than thyself carry on wars without relaxing even for one moment.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the prince who is cruel, and who hath neither allies nor the strength to stand alone: how is he going to withstand his enemy's forces?</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>There is a prince that hath neither courage nor understanding nor liberality, and yet will not live in peace with his neighbours: he is an easy prey to his foes.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the prince who is always illtempered and who controlleth not bis tongue: he will be an easy prey to everybody at all times and at all places.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>There is a prince who is tactless, who careth not for honour, and who neglecteth the science of politics and the works that it enjoineth: verily he is a joy unto his enemies.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the prince who is a slave to his lust and who loseth his reason in the blindness of rage: his enmity will be welcomed by his foes.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the prince who undertaketh an enterprise but doth things that accord not with its success: verily one should seek his enmity even by paying a price for it if necessary.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>If a prince hath no virtues and many vices he will have no allies and his enemies will rejoice.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Enemies rejoice exceedingly when they get a fool and a coward to contend against.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the prince who careth not even to fight his foolish neighbour and obtain an easy victory: glory will reject him for evermore.</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
