<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>IV: The Glorification of Righteousness</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="introduction" id="chapter-4" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IV</h3>
				<p epub:type="title">The Glorification of Righteousness</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="31">
				<li>
					<p>Righteousness leadeth unto heaven and it bringeth wealth also: what is there that is more profitable than Righteousness?</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>There is no greater good than Righteousness, nor no greater ill than the forgetting of it.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Be thou unremitting in the doing of good deeds: do them with all thy might and by every means.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Be pure in heart: all righteousness is contained in this one commandment: all other things are nought but empty sound.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Avoid envy and greed, anger and harsh words: that is the way to acquire righteousness.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Say not in thy heart, I shall be righteous by and bye, but begin to do good works without delaying for it is Righteousness will be thy undying companion on the day of thy death.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Ask me not, Where is the good of Righteousness? Look at the bearer of the palanquin and him that rideth on it.<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-9" id="noteref-9" epub:type="noteref">9</a></p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>If thou do good all thy life without a single waste day, thou wallest up the road to future births.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>That alone is delight which cometh of Righteousness: all else is pain and shame.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>That action alone is worth doing which is righteous: and all action must be shunned which is unrighteous.</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
