<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title/>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-1-1" id="chapter-9" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IX</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">Hospitality</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="81">
				<li>
					<p>What for do the wise toil and set up homes? It is to feed the guest and help the pilgrim.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Were it even the draught of immortality, it shall not be tasted alone when the guest is in the hall.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>No evil befalleth the man who never faileth to honour the incoming guest.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the man who receiveth the worthy guest with his best smile: Lakshmi<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-12" id="noteref-12" epub:type="noteref">12</a> delighteth to abide in his home.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the man who feedeth his guest first and then only eateth what is left: standeth his land in need even of sowing?</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the man who hath tended the out-going guest and waiteth for the incoming one: he is a welcome guest unto the Gods.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>We cannot say of any hospitable act by itself, So much is the merit of thus act: it is the worth of the guest that is the measure of the sacrifice.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the man who performeth not the sacrifice of hospitality: he will say one day, I have toiled hard and laid me up a great treasure: but it is all in vain, for there is none to comfort me.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Not to honour the pilgrim is veritable indigence in the midst of wealth: such a thing is found only with fools.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The <i xml:lang="oty-Latn">anitcha</i> flower fadeth by smelling: but a look is enough to break the heart of the guest.</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
