<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XLII: Listening to the Instruction of the Wise</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-2-1" id="chapter-42" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XLII</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">Listening to the Instruction of the Wise</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="411">
				<li>
					<p>The most precious of treasures is the treasure of the ear: verily it is the crown of all kinds of wealth.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Even unto the stomach some food will be offered when there is no more food to be offered to the ear.<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-20" id="noteref-20" epub:type="noteref">20</a></p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the men who have listened to much instruction: they are very Gods on earth.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Let a man hear instruction even though he hath no learning: for it will be a stay unto him when he is encompassed by difficulty.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The counsel of the righteous is like unto a strong staff: for it keepeth those that listen to it from slipping.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Listen to good words though they be but few: even those few will add to thee a proportionate dignity.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the man that hath meditated much in himself and hath laid by a store of instruction by listening to the wise: he talketh not nonsense even when in error.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Deaf indeed though it heareth is the ear that hath not been drilled by words of instruction.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Humility of speech is hard to be attained by those who have not listened to the subtle words of the wise.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the men that taste with the tongue but know not the taste of the ear: what doth it matter to the world whether they live or die?</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
