<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title/>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section data-parent="section-2-2" id="chapter-74" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXIV</h4>
				<p epub:type="title">The Country</p>
			</hgroup>
			<ol start="731">
				<li>
					<p>That is the great country which never faileth in its yield of harvests, and which is the abode of sages and of rich men that are worthy.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>That is the great country which attracteth men to itself by the greatness of its wealth and which yieldeth abundantly for that it is free from pests.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the great nation: even if burdens upon burdens press down upon it, it will support them bravely and pay its taxes in full withal.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>That is the great country which is free from famines and plagues, and which is safe from the invasions of enemies.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>That is the great nation which is not divided into warring sects, which is free from murderous anarchists, and which hath no traitors within its bosom to ruin it.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Behold the land that hath known no devastation by its foes, and which, even should it suffer any, would not bate one whit in its yield: it will be called a jewel among the countries of the world.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The waters of the surface, the waters that flow underground, rain-water, well-situated mountains, and strong fortifications, these are indispensable to every country.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Wealth, richness of yield, happiness, immunity from diseases, and safety from invasions, these five are the ornaments of a kingdom.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>That alone deserveth to be called country which produceth abundantly without the labour of the people: that which yieldeth only unto labour deserveth not that name.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Even if a country hath all these blessings it is worth nothing if it is not blessed in its ruler.</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
