<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Endnotes</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="backmatter">
		<section id="endnotes" epub:type="endnotes">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Endnotes</h2>
			<ol>
				<li id="note-1" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>The figures within brackets to this para refer to chapters. Everywhere else in the preface they will refer to the number of the verse except where chapters are indicated by the letters <i>Ch</i>. <a href="preface.xhtml#noteref-1" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-2" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>In the transliteration of Tamil words occurring in the book, the letter <i epub:type="z3998:grapheme">j</i> is italicised in order to indicate that it is to be pronounced as in French. <a href="preface.xhtml#noteref-2" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-3" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>According to the Hindus, the Buddhists and Jains, the subtle results of all the actions of a man accompany the soul after the death of the body, and are the cause of his being born again into the world. It is a misery to be born again and again as every new incarnation postpones the moment of supreme bliss. Good deeds done with attachment carry the germs of future birth as much as evil deeds. See Preface <abbr>p.</abbr> <span epub:type="z3998:roman">xviii</span> et seq. <a href="chapter-1.xhtml#noteref-3" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-4" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>The eight attributes are,</p>
					<p>(<span epub:type="z3998:roman">i</span>) According to Shaiva theology: (1) Non-dependence on anything external, (2) Possession of a pure body, (3) Possession of uncreated intelligence, (4) Omniscience, (5) Capacity to transcend all bounds without exertion, (6) Infinite mercy, (7) Omnipotence, and (8) Unlimited joy ; and</p>
					<p>(<span epub:type="z3998:roman">ii</span>) According to Jain theology: (1) Infinite knowledge, (2) Infinite vision, (3) Infinite energy, (4) Infinite joy, (5) Indescribability, (6) Beginninglessness, (7) Agelessness, (8) Deathlessness. <a href="chapter-1.xhtml#noteref-4" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-5" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Indra was smitten with the charms of Ahalya, wife of sage Gautama. One morning when the sage was away he took the form of the sage, and pretending to be her husband he induced her to yield herself to his desire. On coming to know this the sage cursed Indra with a disgusting disease. <a href="chapter-3.xhtml#noteref-5" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-6" epub:type="endnote">
					<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">i.e.</abbr> control their senses. <a href="chapter-3.xhtml#noteref-6" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-7" epub:type="endnote">
					<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">i.e.</abbr> who knows that they are transient and at the same time misleading, and who therefore endeavours to transcend them. <a href="chapter-3.xhtml#noteref-7" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-8" epub:type="endnote">
					<p><i>Andana</i>, the Tamil word for Brâhman means etymologically, <em>he who has the beautiful quality of mercy</em>. <a href="chapter-3.xhtml#noteref-8" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-9" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>It is the righteous deeds done in past births that have made the one the rider, and the unrighteous deeds done in the same past births that have made the other the bearer, of the palanquin. <a href="chapter-4.xhtml#noteref-9" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-10" epub:type="endnote">
					<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">i.e.</abbr> the student, the eremite, and the ascetic. <a href="chapter-5.xhtml#noteref-10" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-11" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>friend of the dead because he performs their obsequies. <a href="chapter-5.xhtml#noteref-11" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-12" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>The Goddess of Prosperity. <a href="chapter-9.xhtml#noteref-12" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-13" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>The Goddess of Fortune. <a href="chapter-17.xhtml#noteref-13" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-14" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>The Genius of misery. <a href="chapter-17.xhtml#noteref-14" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-15" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>The jingle is in the original. <a href="chapter-23.xhtml#noteref-15" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-16" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Austerities, self-mortification, and thought-concentration. <a href="chapter-27.xhtml#noteref-16" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-17" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Ether and the subtle principles of gaseousness, heat liquidity, and solidity. <a href="chapter-28.xhtml#noteref-17" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-18" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>The falsehood that is contemplated in this verse is the untruth that even the most virtuous of men will not flinch from uttering when an innocent victim has to be rescued from death, cruelty, or dishonour about to be inflicted by ruffians, and there is no other means of saving him from the same. <a href="chapter-30.xhtml#noteref-18" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-19" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Food is not to be thought of so long as there is instruction to listen to. <a href="chapter-42.xhtml#noteref-19" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-20" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Lust. <a href="chapter-44.xhtml#noteref-20" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-21" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Thy allies as well as those of thy enemy. <a href="chapter-48.xhtml#noteref-21" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-22" epub:type="endnote">
					<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">i.e.</abbr>, even the most powerful king will succumb if he makes war with too many enemies at a time even if each of them should de despicable when alone. <a href="chapter-48.xhtml#noteref-22" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-23" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>This is a warning to those princes who seek to embark on fresh enterprises after the utmost limit of their strength has been reached. <a href="chapter-48.xhtml#noteref-23" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-24" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Income. <a href="chapter-48.xhtml#noteref-24" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-25" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Expenditure. <a href="chapter-48.xhtml#noteref-25" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-26" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>See Kauṭilya’s <i>Arthashâstra</i>, Part I Ch. 10 for those tests or <i>upadhâs</i>. <a href="chapter-51.xhtml#noteref-26" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-27" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>The God Vishnu who in his incarnation as Trivikrama measured the whole universe in three strides. <a href="chapter-61.xhtml#noteref-27" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-28" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Lakshmi, the Goddess of Fortune. <a href="chapter-62.xhtml#noteref-28" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-29" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>For he can go on with his enterprise without any fear or anxiety. <a href="chapter-76.xhtml#noteref-29" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-30" epub:type="endnote">
					<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">i.e.</abbr>, righteousness and love. <a href="chapter-76.xhtml#noteref-30" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-31" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>The warrior is supposed not to have felt at all the pain caused by the enemy’s spear. So he does not even know that it is still sticking in his body. When he notices it, instead of feeling the pain of the wound he is glad that he has got a spear handy to launch against his enemy. <a href="chapter-78.xhtml#noteref-31" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-32" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>For it gives them an opportunity to show the depth of their love by pardoning the injury without uttering a word of reproach. <a href="chapter-81.xhtml#noteref-32" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-33" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>An imaginary being that is believed to fascinate men in groves <abbr>etc.</abbr> and make them extremely erotic. <a href="chapter-92.xhtml#noteref-33" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-34" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>The other two are <i>the bile</i> and <i>the phlegm</i>. <a href="chapter-95.xhtml#noteref-34" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-35" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Parimêla<i>j</i>ahar explains the attributes thus : the attributes of the patient are ability to disclose symptoms, strength to endure pain, ability to pay, and strict obedience to the directions of the physician; those of the physician are intelligence and study, courage to handle every disease, purity of thought, word, and deed, and good luck; those of the medicine are efficacy to cure many diseases, superior virtue on account of taste, power, strength, and effects, facility of being procured, and capacity to combine with other ingredients as well as food; and those of the apothecary are kindness and consideration to the anxiety of the patient, purity of thought, word, and deed, ability to compound drugs, and common sense. <a href="chapter-95.xhtml#noteref-35" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-36" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>The grateful remembrance of neighbours, which can be earned only by freely helping others, is the only thing that can be said to really survive a man. <a href="chapter-101.xhtml#noteref-36" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-37" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>The post pities the uncomplaining patience with which the goodman bears every burden. <a href="chapter-103.xhtml#noteref-37" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-38" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>To be taken as the words of an indigent man sinking under the load of his poverty. <a href="chapter-105.xhtml#noteref-38" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-39" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>of others. <a href="chapter-105.xhtml#noteref-39" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-40" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>For the joy and glory of liberality would be absent from life: see next verse. <a href="chapter-106.xhtml#noteref-40" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-41" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>The fancy is that the rebuff of the dodger kills the beggar; it its virulence is so great, it should kill the dodger himself who purses it in his bosom. <a href="chapter-107.xhtml#noteref-41" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-42" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Every one of the verses in this part are to be taken as the words either of the love or of the lady-love or of the confidante of the lady-love. <a href="chapter-109.xhtml#noteref-42" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-43" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>See note to verse 918. <a href="chapter-109.xhtml#noteref-43" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-44" epub:type="endnote">
					<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">i.e.</abbr>, but for the vestment men would be smitten by their beauty and die. It is usual for mahouts to cover with a metal plate the eyes of elephants which are expected to become rabid. <a href="chapter-109.xhtml#noteref-44" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-45" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>For it giveth more joy than all the other tricks of the beloved taken together. <a href="chapter-110.xhtml#noteref-45" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-46" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>The fancy is that be lover is seated in her very eye. <a href="chapter-113.xhtml#noteref-46" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-47" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>For eyes close automatically when being painted. <a href="chapter-113.xhtml#noteref-47" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-48" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Wrongly thinking that he has abandoned her and attributing her sleeplessness to it. <a href="chapter-113.xhtml#noteref-48" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-49" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>See preface page <span epub:type="z3998:roman">xxviii</span>. <a href="chapter-114.xhtml#noteref-49" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-50" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>And leave me to die by stopping the outcry. See pages <span epub:type="z3998:roman">xxviii</span> and <span epub:type="z3998:roman">xxix</span> of preface before reading this chapter. <a href="chapter-115.xhtml#noteref-50" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-51" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>The eclipse of the moon to see which everybody in India comes out of his home. <a href="chapter-115.xhtml#noteref-51" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-52" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>See 1160 below. <a href="chapter-116.xhtml#noteref-52" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-53" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>The fancy is that her grief at the very thought of his parting is so intense that her arms have lost flesh and allowed the bracelets to slip of themselves. <a href="chapter-116.xhtml#noteref-53" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-54" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Whenever men have a heavy burden to carry, they divide it into two equal bundles and attach each one of them to one end of a longish pole which is then lifted and carried on the shoulder by the middle. <a href="chapter-117.xhtml#noteref-54" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-55" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>All else but me are asleep: by being awake I bear Night company and help her to go on with her work. <a href="chapter-117.xhtml#noteref-55" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-56" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>The fancy seems to be something like this: As evil spirits are warded off by devotion accompanied by the uttering of the name of God, so it should have been possible to ward off pallor of the body by thinking of the beloved and uttering his praises. If, in spite of this, pallor should overspread her frame, there should be some witchcraft somewhere to nullify the effects of her endeavours to keep it at a distance. Parimela<i>j</i>ahar gives a different explanation. <a href="chapter-119.xhtml#noteref-56" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-57" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>The maid is to be supposed to have tried to console the mistress saying. “Thy beloved is not gone far away: be calm, be will return soon.” The text is to be taken an the reply of the mistress to this supposed address. <a href="chapter-119.xhtml#noteref-57" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-58" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Note the sudden change of mood. <a href="chapter-119.xhtml#noteref-58" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-59" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>See footnote to verse 1163. <a href="chapter-120.xhtml#noteref-59" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-60" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Sneezing is believed to indicate that a friend or relative is thinking of the one who sneezes. <a href="chapter-121.xhtml#noteref-60" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-61" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>The maid is to be supposed to have said, “As it is remembrance that causes thee all this sorrow, why dost thou not try to forget thy beloved for some time?” The text is to taken as the reply of the mistress to this supposed address. <a href="chapter-121.xhtml#noteref-61" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-62" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Note the sudden change of mood. <a href="chapter-122.xhtml#noteref-62" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-63" epub:type="endnote">
					<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">i.e.</abbr> I dream that he embraces me. <a href="chapter-122.xhtml#noteref-63" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-64" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>For morning assuages her grief and evening intensifies it. <a href="chapter-123.xhtml#noteref-64" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-65" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>For having believed such a palpable absurdity. <a href="chapter-124.xhtml#noteref-65" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-66" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>The artless simplicity of women is exaggerated by poets in a thousand ways. Here the wife is supposed to be unable to tell the number of days that have elapsed since the parting of the husband by means of a calendar or by memory. So she is described as making a mark on the wall for every day that has elapsed since his departure, and then counting the marks, touching them one by one with her fingers, whenever she wants to calculate the day of his return. <a href="chapter-127.xhtml#noteref-66" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-67" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>The fear that the husband is going again to part: the pair are now to be supposed to have met again after their separation. <a href="chapter-128.xhtml#noteref-67" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-68" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>So intense is my grief even at anticipated separation. <a href="chapter-128.xhtml#noteref-68" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-69" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>See next verse. <a href="chapter-128.xhtml#noteref-69" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-70" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Thou art not one of those few, as thou woundest me in thy sulks. <a href="chapter-129.xhtml#noteref-70" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-71" epub:type="endnote">
					<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">i.e.</abbr> by taking her part when she is in the sulks. <a href="chapter-130.xhtml#noteref-71" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-72" epub:type="endnote">
					<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">i.e.</abbr> his wife. <a href="chapter-130.xhtml#noteref-72" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-73" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Sulks. <a href="chapter-131.xhtml#noteref-73" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-74" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>For she thought that he contemplated the possibility of parting in the next life. <a href="chapter-132.xhtml#noteref-74" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-75" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>See footnote to verse 1203. <a href="chapter-132.xhtml#noteref-75" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
